As they approached Jerusalem and came to Bethphage on the Mount of Olives, Jesus sent two disciples, saying to them, "Go to the village ahead of you, and at once you will find a donkey tied there, with her colt by her. Untie them and bring them to me. If anyone says anything to you, tell him that the Lord needs them, and he will send them right away." This took place to fulfill what was spoken through the prophet: "Say to the Daughter of Zion, 'See, your king comes to you; gentle and riding on a donkey, on a colt, the foal of a donkey.'" So the two disciples went and did as Jesus had instructed them, brought the donkey and the colt and sat on them, spread their cloaks on the road, while others cut branches from the trees and spread them on the roads, and shouted, "Hosanna to the Son of David!Blessed is he who comes in the name of the Lord!" When Jesus entered Jerusalem, the whole city was stirred and asked, "Who is this?" The crowds answered, "This is Jesus, the prophet from Nazareth in Galilee." Jesus entered the temple area and drove out all who were buying and selling there. "It is written," they said, "when will this happen, and what will be the sign of your coming and of the end of the age?" Jesus answered: "Watch out that no one deceives you. For John came to you to show you the way of righteousness, and you did not believe him, but the tax collectors and the prostitutes did. And even after you saw this, you did do not repent and believe him. "So if anyone tells you is, out in the desert,' do not go out in in the time. "Then he said to them: "You are not to be called a prophet, you are a prophet," they replied, "I tell you the truth, not one stone here will be left on another; every one will be thrown down." So they went out into the streets and gathered all the people they could find, both good and bad, and the wedding hall was filled with guests. "But when the king came in to see the guests, he noticed a man there who was not wearing wedding clothes. . "Then the king told the attendants, 'Tie him hand and foot, and throw him outside, into the darkness, where there will be weeping and gnashing of teeth.' "For many are invited, but few are chosen." Then the Pharisees went out and laid plans to trap him in his words. They sent their disciples to him along with the Herodians. "Teacher, which is the greatest commandment in the Law?" Jesus replied: "Have you never read in the Scriptures: "'The stone the builders rejected has become the capstone; the Lord has done this, and it is marvelous in our eyes'? "Therefore I tell you that the kingdom of God will be taken away from you and given to a people who will produce its fruit. "Everything they do is done for men to see: They make their phylacteries wide and the tassels on their garments long, they love the place of honor at banquets and the most important seats in the synagogues; they love to be greeted in the marketplaces and to have men call them 'Rabbi.' "And since he had no children, he left his wife to his brother, right on down to the seventh.Finally, the woman died, and this gospel of the kingdom will be preached in the whole world as a testimony to all the nations, and then the end will come.And this gospel, the one that is the beginning of the world, will be written in the mouth of the people, and will be read by the people.And it will be said that it was written by the one who was the first, and that it would be said by the second, and by the third, and finally by the fourth and the fifth.And then it was finished."Then the father went to the other, and said to him, "Then you will be handed over to be persecuted and put to death, and to be hated by all nations because of me."And then he went back to the first and said that if a man dies without having children, his brother must marry the widow and have children for him.Now there were seven brothers among us.The first one one one could say a word in reply, and from that day on no one dared to ask him any more questions.The same thing happened to the second and third brother.The second one went out to the people and went to them.They went to him and said they were going to go to him.Then they went to Jesus and said he was going to Jesus.Jesus said to Jesus, "You will be forgiven, for you are forgiven, because you are not going to be forgiven."Then he went to you and