While Jesus was in Bethany in the home of a man known as Simon the Leper, a woman came to him with an alabaster jar of very expensive perfume, which she poured on his head as he was reclining at the table. When the disciples saw this, they were indignant. "Why this waste?" they asked. "This perfume could have been sold at a high price and the money given to the poor." Aware of this, Jesus said to them, "Why are you bothering this woman? She has done a beautiful thing to me. The poor you will always have with you, but you will not always have me. When she poured this perfume on my body, she did it to prepare me for burial. I tell you the truth, wherever this gospel is preached throughout the world, what she has done will also be told, in memory of her." Six days before the Passover, Jesus arrived at Bethany, where Lazarus lived, whom Jesus had raised from the dead. .
Meanwhile a large crowd of Jews found out that Jesus was there and came, not only because of him but also to see Lazarus, whom he had raised from the dead. So the chief priests made plans to kill Lazarus as well, for on account of him many of the Jews were going over to Jesus and putting their faith in him.
The next day the great crowd that had come for the Feast heard that Jesus was on his way to Jerusalem. They took palm branches and went out to meet him, shouting, "Hosanna! Blessed is he who comes in the name of the Lord!Blessed is the King of Israel!"
As they approached Jerusalem and came to Bethphage on the Mount of Olives, Jesus sent two disciples, saying to them, "Go to the village ahead of you, and at once you will find a donkey tied there, with her colt by her. Untie them and bring them to me. If anyone says anything to you, tell him that the Lord needs them, and he will send them right away." This took place to fulfill what was spoken through the prophet: "Say to the Daughter of Zion, 'See, your king comes to you gentle and riding on a donkey, on a colt, the foal of a donkey.'" The disciples went and did as Jesus had instructed them. They brought the donkey and the colt to Jesus, placed their cloaks on them and Jesus sat on them. .
When he came near the place where the road goes down the Mount of Olives, the whole crowd of disciples began joyfully to praise God in loud voices for all the miracles they had seen: "Blessed is the king who comes in the name of the Lord!Peace in heaven and glory in the highest!" Some of the Pharisees in the crowd said to Jesus, "Teacher, rebuke your disciples!" "I tell you," he replied, "if they keep quiet, the stones will cry out."
As he approached Jerusalem and saw the city, he wept over it and said, "If you, even you, had only known on this day what would bring you peace--but now it is hidden from your eyes. The days will come upon you when your enemies will build an embankment against you and encircle you and hem you in on every side. .
When Jesus entered Jerusalem, the whole city was stirred and asked, "Who is this?" The crowds answered, "This is Jesus, the prophet from Nazareth in Galilee." Now the crowd that was with him when he called Lazarus from the tomb and raised him from the dead continued to spread the word.
And he left them and went out of the city to Bethany, where he spent the night.Jesus entered Jerusalem and went to the temple.He looked around at everything, but since it was already late, he went out to the Bethany with the Twelve.
Early in the morning, as he was on his way back to the city, he was hungry. Seeing a fig tree by the road, he went up to it but found nothing on it except leaves. .
Jesus entered the temple area and drove out all who were buying and selling there. He overturned the tables of the money changers and the benches of those selling doves. "It is written," he said to them, "'My house will be called a house of prayer,' but you are making it a 'den of robbers.'" When Jesus and his disciples came to the city of Nicaea, they went to the temple to teach the people about the law and the law of the Jews, and about the house of God. .
The chief priests and the teachers of the law heard this and began looking for a way to kill him, for they feared him, because the whole crowd was amazed at his teaching. Every day he was teaching at the temple. .
The blind and the lame came to him at the temple, and he healed them. But when the chief priests and the teachers of the law saw the wonderful things he did and the children shouting in the temple area, "Hosanna to the Son of David," they were indignant. "Do you hear what these children are saying?" they asked him.
When evening came, they went out of the city.When morning came they went to the market.When afternoon came they came back to the hotel and went to bed.When the sun rose, they were up and ready to go out of town.
Each day Jesus was teaching at the temple, and each evening he went out to spend the night on the hill called the Mount of Olives, and all the people came early in the morning to hear him at the sanctuary. .
Jesus replied, "I tell you the truth, if you have faith and do not doubt, not only can you do what was done to the fig tree, but also you can say to this mountain, 'Go, throw yourself into the sea,' and it will be done. If you believe, you will receive whatever you ask for in prayer." In the morning, as they went along, they saw the fig fig tree withered from the roots. Peter remembered and said to Jesus, "Rabbi, look! The fig tree you cursed has withered!" "Have faith in God," Jesus answered. "I say to you, whoever says to me, 'Lord, give me whatever I want,' and I will give it to him; and whoever believes in me will also receive it; but whoever does not have faith will not receive it, but whoever has faith will receive it." .
Jesus entered the temple courts, and, while he was teaching, the chief priests and the elders of the people came to him. "And who gave you this authority?" Jesus replied, "I will also ask you one question. If you answer me, I will tell you by what authority I am doing these things. John's baptism--where did it come from? Was it from heaven, or from men?" They discussed it among themselves and said, "If we say, 'From heaven,' he will ask, 'Then why didn't you believe him?' But if we say; 'From men'--we are afraid of the men, for they all hold that John was a prophet." So they answered Jesus, "We don't know." Then he said to them, "Neither will I tell you who is giving you the authority to do these things," and he went on his way.They arrived again in Jerusalem, and while they were walking in the city streets, they came to the house of the high priest and said to him, "What do you want us to do with you?What do we have to do to get you to agree with us?What are we going to do if you don't like what we are telling you?"And he.
"Then the father went to the other son and said the same thing. He answered, 'I will, sir,' but he did not go. "Which of the two did what his father wanted?The first," they answered.Jesus said to them, "I tell you the truth, the tax collectors and the prostitutes are entering the kingdom of God ahead of you. For John came to you to show you the way of righteousness, and you did not believe him; nevertheless, take heart, brothers and sisters, because I have come to you a prophet who has been with you throughout the history of the world. .
"He will bring those wretches to a wretched end," they replied, "and he will rent the vineyard to other tenants, who will give him his share of the crop at harvest time." He then began to speak to them in parables: "A man planted a vineyard. He put a wall around it, dug a winepress in it and built a watchtower.When the harvest time approached, he sent his servants to the tenants to collect his fruit."The tenants seized his servants; they beat one, killed another, and stoned a third.Then he sent other servants to them, more than the first time, and the tenants treated them the same way.Last of all, he brought his son to them. "But when the tenants saw the son, they said to each other, 'This is the heir. Come, let's kill him and take his inheritance.' So they took him and threw him out of the Vineyard and killed him."Therefore, when the owner of the wine vineyard comes, what will he do to those tenants?" "He will take those tenants to the wretched end and bring them to his wretched end, and then rent the winepress to another tenant who will bring the wine to him at.
Jesus said to them, "Have you never read in the Scriptures: "'The stone the builders rejected has become the capstone; the Lord has done this, and it is marvelous in our eyes'? "Therefore I tell you that the kingdom of God will be taken away from you and given to a people who will produce its fruit. He who falls on this stone will be broken to pieces, but he on whom it falls will be crushed."
When the chief priests and the Pharisees heard Jesus' parables, they knew he was talking about them. They looked for a way to arrest him, but they were afraid of the crowd because the people held that he was a prophet. .
Jesus spoke to them again in parables, saying: "The kingdom of heaven is like a king who prepared a wedding banquet for his son. He sent his servants to those who had been invited to the banquet to tell them to come, but they refused to come. "Then he sent some more servants and said, 'Tell those who have been invited that I have prepared my dinner: My oxen and fattened cattle have been butchered, and everything is ready. Come to the wedding banquet.' "But they paid no attention and went off--one to his field, another to his business. The rest seized his servants, mistreated them and killed them. The king was enraged. "But when the king came in to see the guests, he noticed a man there who was not wearing wedding clothes. "Friend,' he asked, 'how did you get in here without wedding clothes?' "Then the king told the attendants, 'Tie him hand and foot, and throw him outside, into the darkness, where there will be weeping and gnashing of teeth.' "For many are invited, but few are chosen."
Then the Pharisees went out and laid plans to trap him in his words. They sent their disciples to him along with the Herodians. "Teacher," they said, "we know you are a man of integrity and that you teach the way of God in accordance with the truth. You aren't swayed by men, because you pay no attention to who they are. Tell us then, what is your opinion? Is it right to pay taxes to Caesar or not?" But Jesus, knowing their evil intent, said, “You hypocrites, why are you trying to trap me? Show me the coin used for paying the tax." They brought him a denarius, and he asked them, "Whose portrait is this? And whose inscription?" "Caesar's," they replied. . Then he said to them, ‘Give to Caesar what is Caesar's, and to God what is God's.’ When they heard this, they were amazed, and went away.Later they sent some of the people who were with them to Jesus to catch him in the words, and they came to him and said, 'Teacher, we know you're a man who is of integrity; we know that you are not swayed by the men who.
That same day the Sadducees, who say there is no resurrection, came to him with a question. "Teacher," they said, "Moses told us that if a man dies without having children, his brother must marry the widow and have children for him. Now there were seven brothers among us. The first one married and died, and since he had no children, he left his wife to his brother. The same thing happened to the second and third brother, right on down to the seventh. Finally, the woman died. Now then, at the resurrection, whose wife will she be of the seven, since all of them were married to her?" Jesus replied, "You are in error because you do not know the Scriptures or the power of God. At the resurrection people will neither marry nor be given in marriage; they will be like the angels in heaven. But about the resurrection of the dead--have you not read what God said to you, 'I am the God of Abraham, the God to Isaac, and the God for Jacob'? . Now about the dead rising--have Jesus not read in the book of Moses, in the account of the bush, how he said to him, "The people of this age marry and are given.
Hearing that Jesus had silenced the Sadducees, the Pharisees got together.One of them, an expert in the law, tested him with this question: "Teacher, which is the greatest commandment in the Law?" Jesus replied: "'Love the Lord your God with all your heart and with all of your soul andwith all your mind.' And the second is like it: 'Love your neighbor as yourself.' All the Law and the Prophets hang on these two commandments." One of the teachers of the law came and heard them debating. Noticing that he had given them a good answer, he asked him, "Of all the commandments, which are the most important?" "The most important one," answered Jesus, "is this: 'Hear, O Israel, the Lord our God, the lord is one. . To love the Lord is more important than all burnt offerings and sacrifices." "You are right in saying that God is one and there is no other but him. .
While the Pharisees were gathered together, Jesus asked them, "What do you think about the Christ? Whose son is he?The son of David," they replied.He said to them, “How is it then that David, speaking by the Spirit, calls him 'Lord'? For he says, "'The Lord said to my Lord: "Sit at my right hand until I put your enemies under your feet."' If then David calls him ‘Lord,' how can he be his son?” No one could say a word in reply, and from that day on no one dared to ask him any more questions.While Jesus was teaching in the temple courts, he asked, "How is is it that the teachers of the law say that the Christ is the son ofDavid?
Then Jesus said to the crowds and to his disciples: "The teachers of the law and the Pharisees sit in Moses' seat. So you must obey them and do everything they tell you. But do not do what they do, for they do not practice what they preach. They tie up heavy loads and put them on men's shoulders, but they themselves are not willing to lift a finger to move them. "Everything they do is done for men to see: They make their phylacteries wide and the tassels on their garments long; they love the place of honor at banquets and the most important seats in the synagogues; they also love to be greeted in the marketplaces and to have men call them 'Rabbi.' "But you are not to be called 'rabbi,' for you have only one Master and you are all brothers. And do not call anyone on earth 'brother,' for all men are brothers, and you have one Father, and he is in heaven; nor are you called 'son,' for none of you has a father except the one who comes from heaven.As he taught, Jesus said, "They like to walk around in flowing robes and be greeted by the people in the markets and.
"Woe to you, teachers of the law and Pharisees, you hypocrites! You travel over land and sea to win a single convert, and when he becomes one, you make him twice as much a son of hell as you are. See Footnote "You also say, 'If anyone swears by the altar, it means nothing; but if anyone swains by the gift on it, he is bound by his oath.' You blind men! Which is greater: the gift, or the altar that makes the gift sacred? Therefore, he who swears to the altar swears not only by the gold of the temple, but also by the one who dwells in it, and by everything on it; and he who comes to the city and sits down on the ground, and worships there, and takes up the offerings made by the priests and the Levites, and gives them to the poor and the needy, and he takes off his tunic and his cloak and his beard and his hair, and puts on his habit and his habit, and covers his face with the strips of the cloak that he has been caught with, and so on and so forth. "Woe, teachers, you hypocrrites! "You travel over the.
"O Jerusalem, Jerusalem, you who kill the prophets and stone those sent to you, how often I have longed to gather your children together, as a hen gathers her chicks under her wings, but you were not willing. Look, your house is left to you desolate. .
Many rich people threw in large amounts. But a poor widow came and put in two very small copper coins, worth only a fraction of a penny. Calling his disciples to him, Jesus said, "I tell you the truth, this poor widow has put more into the treasury than all the others. They all gave out of their wealth; but she, out of her poverty, put in everything--all she had to live on." As he looked up, Jesus saw the rich putting their gifts into the temple treasury.
Jesus left the temple and was walking away when his disciples came up to him to call his attention to its buildings. "I tell you the truth, not one stone here will be left on another; every one will be thrown down." As he was leaving the temple, one of his disciples said to him, "Look, Teacher! What massive stones! What magnificent buildings!" "Do you see all these great buildings?" replied Jesus.
As Jesus was sitting on the Mount of Olives, the disciples came to him privately. "Tell us," they said, "when will this happen, and what will be the sign of your coming and of the end of the age?"
Jesus said to them: "Watch out that no one deceives you. Many will come in my name, claiming, 'I am he,' and will deceive many. He replied: "Do not be deceived, for the kingdom of heaven is near, and the coming of the Lord is near."Do not follow them.Do not give them false hope, for they will come and take away your good things, and you will lose your faith and all that is good.Jesus said: "Therefore take no thought of such things, for you will be utterly crushed if you do not take care of the things that are given to you.
You will hear of wars and rumors of wars, but see to it that you are not alarmed. Such things must happen, but the end is still to come. Nation will rise against nation, and kingdom against kingdom. There will be earthquakes in various places, and famines. These are the beginning of birth pains. "You must be on your guard. You will be handed over to the local councils and flogged in the synagogues.On account of me you will stand before governors and kings as witnesses to them. . "And this gospel of the kingdom will be preached in the whole world as a testimony to all nations, and then the end will come. "And you will be hated by all nations because of me.At that time many will turn away from the faith and will betray and hate each other, and many false prophets will appear and deceive many people.Because of the increase of wickedness, the love of most will grow cold, but he who stands firm to the end, will be saved. "He will be thrown to the lions and thrown into the lake of fire, and he will be cast into the deep of the sea, and the waves of death will consume him.You will be given over to be thrown into slavery, and.
"So when you see standing in the holy place 'the abomination that causes desolation,' spoken of through the prophet Daniel--let the reader understand-- then let those who are in Judea flee to the mountains. Let no one on the roof of his house go down or enter the house to take anything out, let no one in the field go back to get his cloak. How dreadful it will be in those days for pregnant women and nursing mothers! Pray that your flight will not take place in winter or on the Sabbath. For then there will be great distress, unequaled from the beginning of the world until now--and never to be equaled again. If those days had not been cut short, no one would survive, but for the sake of the elect those days will be shortened. "When you see Jerusalem being surrounded by armies, you will know that its desolation is near. .
At that time if anyone says to you, 'Look, here is the Christ!' or, 'There he is!' do not believe it. For false Christs and false prophets will appear and perform great signs and miracles to deceive even the elect--if that were possible. See, I have told you ahead of time. "And if anyone tells you, ‘There is the Son of Man, and he is coming to take possession of all things; and he will give a new commandment to every creature; and if anyone does not believe him, he will throw off his cloak and will come to life.” (Mark 7:31-34) .
Wherever there is a carcass, there the vultures will gather.The vulture’s natural instinct is to hunt for the carcass wherever it can be found, wherever the wind blows, and wherever the sun shines.
Immediately after the distress of those days "the sun will be darkened, and the moon will not give its light; the stars will fall from the sky and the heavenly bodies will be shaken." "At that time the sign of the Son of Man will appear in the sky, and all the nations of the earth will mourn. "There will be signs in the sun, moon and stars. On the earth, nations will be in anguish and perplexity at the roaring and tossing of the sea. "Men will faint from terror, apprehensive of what is coming on the world, for the heavens and the earth are shaken. At that time, they will see the son of man coming in clouds with great power and glory, and he will send his angels with a loud trumpet call, and they will gather his elect from the four winds, from one end of the heavens to the other. "But in those days, following that distress, "the stars will be darkened, and will not be able to give their light; and the sun and moon will no longer give its brightness; the sky will be covered with clouds and the stars of the night will be hidden from the eyes of the people. "Immediately afterwards the distress will begin, and immediately after the.
He told them this parable: "Look at the fig tree and all the trees.When they sprout leaves, you can see for yourselves and know that summer is near.Even so, when you see these things happening, you know that the kingdom of God is near.""I tell you the truth, this generation will certainly not pass away until all these things have happened.Heaven and earth will pass away, but my words will never pass away."Jesus said to them, "Do not be afraid, because I have come to you with a good and perfect plan for you. . "He said, "The fig tree will sprout its leaves and the sun will rise on them, and the mountains will grow taller and the sea will become deeper and the winds will blow more steadily.But the sun and the moon will not be able to keep up with the changes that are taking place in the heaven and in the earth; neither will the wind nor the water come to blows.The wind and the rain will cease, but the waters will never dry up.The sun will not rise on the mountains and the waves will not come to the sea; but the winds and the rains will continue to blow.The world will not cease to exist until the sun.
"No one knows about that day or hour, not even the angels in heaven, nor the Son, but only the Father. "In Romans 13, Jesus said, “I have come to reveal the plans I had for the whole world, even the ends of the world.” .
For in the days before the flood, people were eating and drinking, marrying and giving in marriage, up to the day Noah entered the ark; and they knew nothing about what would happen until the flood came and took them all away.That is how it will be at the coming of the Son of Man. .
Two men will be in the field; one will be taken and the other left. "Therefore keep watch, because you do not know on what day your Lord will come. But understand this: If the owner of the house had known at what time of night the thief was coming, he would have kept watch and would not have let his house be broken into. .
So you also must be ready, because the Son of Man will come at an hour when you do not expect him. "Who then is the faithful and wise servant, whom the master has put in charge of the servants in his household to give them their food at the proper time? It will be good for that servant whose master finds him doing so when he returns. But suppose that servant is wicked and says to himself, 'My master is staying away a long time,' and he then begins to beat his fellow servants and to eat and drink with drunkards. "The master of that servant will come on a day when the owner of the house is not expecting him, and he will cut him to pieces and assign him to a place with the hypocrites, where there will be weeping and gnashing of teeth. "Therefore, because you also are not able to escape all that is about to happen, be always on the watch, and pray that you may be able to stand before all of the things that are going to happen to you. "Be careful, or your hearts will be weighed down with dissipation, drunkenness and the anxieties of life, and that day will close on you unexpectedly like a trap. .
"At that time the kingdom of heaven will be like ten virgins who took their lamps and went out to meet the bridegroom. Five of them were foolish and five were wise. The foolish ones said to the wise, 'Give us some of your oil; our lamps are going out.' "'No,' they replied, 'there may not be enough for both us and you. Instead, go to those who sell oil and buy some for yourselves.' "But while they were on their way to buy the oil, the bride groom arrived. The virgins, who were ready, went in with him to the wedding banquet, and the door was shut. "Later the others also came, 'Sir! Sir!' they said, 'Open the door for us!' "But he replied, ‘I tell you the truth, I don't know you.’ “Therefore keep watch, because you do not know the day or the hour.” .
"Again, it will be like a man going on a journey, who called his servants and entrusted his property to them. To one he gave five talents of money, to another two talents, and to another one talent, each according to his ability. Then he went on his journey. The man who had received the five talents went at once and put his money to work and gained five more. So also, the one with the two talents gained two more. "The man with the one talent went off, dug a hole in the ground and hid his master's money. "After a long time the master of those servants returned and settled accounts with them. "His master replied, 'Well done, good and faithful servant! You have been faithful with a few things; I will put you in charge of many things. 'Master,' he said, 'You entrusted me with one talent; see, I have gained one more.' "Then the man with two talents also came and said to his master, 'Master, you entrusted me two talents and I have brought two more with me.' "The master said to him, 'Come and share your master's happiness.' "Then he said to the one who had brought the other five talents, 'master,.
"When the Son of Man comes in his glory, and all the angels with him, he will sit on his throne in heavenly glory. All the nations will be gathered before him, and he will separate the people one from another as a shepherd separates the sheep from the goats. He will put the sheep on his right and the goats on his left. "Then the king will say to those on his far left, 'Come, you who are blessed by my Father; take your inheritance, the kingdom prepared for you since the creation of the world. "For I was hungry and you gave me something to eat, I was thirsty and you give me water; I was a stranger and you invited me in, I needed water and you provided it for me; and I was sick and you took pity on me, so that I may live to see the end of my life. "The righteous will answer him, 'Lord, when did we see you hungry and feed you, or thirsty and give you something to drink? When did you see you a stranger, and invite you in, or needing clothes and clothe you?' "The King will reply, 'I tell you the truth, whatever you did for one of the least of these brothers of mine, you.
Now there were some Greeks among those who went up to worship at the Feast. They came to Philip, who was from Bethsaida in Galilee, with a request. "Sir," they said, "we would like to see Jesus." Philip went to tell Andrew; Andrew and Philip in turn told Jesus. Jesus replied, "The hour has come for the Son of Man to be glorified. I tell you the truth, unless a kernel of wheat falls to the ground and dies, it remains only a single seed. But if it dies it produces many seeds. The man who loves his life will lose it, while the man who hates his life in this world will keep it for eternal life. Whoever serves me must follow me; and where I am, my servant also will be. My Father will honor the one who serves me. "Now my heart is troubled, and what shall I say? 'Father, save me from this hour'? No, it was for this very reason I came to this hour. Father, glorify your name!" Then a voice came from heaven, "I have glorified it, and will glorify it again." The crowd that was there and heard it said it had thundered; others said an angel had spoken.
" When he had finished speaking, Jesus left and hid himself from them.Jesus then went to Galilee, where he was found by the disciples and sat down at the right hand of the mountain, and there he sat down and began to write the Acts of the Apostles.
When Jesus had finished saying all these things, he said to his disciples, "As you know, the Passover is two days away--and the Son of Man will be handed over to be crucified."
Then the chief priests and the elders of the people assembled in the palace of the high priest, whose name was Caiaphas, and they plotted to arrest Jesus in some sly way and kill him. "But not during the Feast," they said, "or there may be a riot among the people. .
Then one of the Twelve--the one called Judas Iscariot--went to the chief priests and asked, "What are you willing to give me if I hand him over to you?" So they counted out for him thirty silver coins. .
Even after Jesus had done all these miraculous signs in their presence, they still would not believe in him. This was to fulfill the word of Isaiah the prophet: "Lord, who has believed our message and to whom has the arm of the Lord been revealed?" For this reason they could not believe, because, as Isaiah says elsewhere: "He has blinded their eyes and deadened their hearts, so they can neither see with their eyes, nor understand with their heart, nor turn--and I would heal them." Isaiah said this because he saw Jesus' glory and spoke about him. But because of the Pharisees they would not confess their faith for fear they would be put out of the synagogue; for they loved praise from men more than praise from God.
Then Jesus cried out, "When a man believes in me, he does not believe in me only, but in the one who sent me. When he comes to me and asks me something, I will give him the right to ask the Lord, and he will give me the power to give it to him. "For I have come into the world as a light, so that no one who is conceited and conceited should be thrown into the furnace of death, but that he may be brought to life and have eternal life.Then Jesus said to him, "Whoever receives the food that I have given you and keeps it, he will not throw it into the pit; but he will take it to the hills and the sea and you will not be cast into the water.
(Jesus rests?).
On the first day of the Feast of Unleavened Bread, the disciples came to Jesus and asked, "Where do you want us to make preparations for you to eat the Passover?" He replied, "Go into the city to a certain man and tell him, 'The Teacher says: My appointed time is near. I am going to celebrate the passover with my disciples at your house.'" So the disciples did as Jesus had directed them to do and prepared for the feast. On the second day, when it was customary to sacrifice a Passover lamb, Jesus sent two of his disciples, telling them, "Take them and bring them to the house of the house owner, and say to him, "The Teacher asks: Where is my guest room, where I may eat Passover with you and my disciples?" He will show you a large upper room, furnished and ready, and make arrangements for us there." The disciples went, went into the house and found things just as Jesus himself had told them, so they prepared for them and ate Passover. Then came the day of unleavened bread, and Jesus sent Peter and John, saying, "Make preparations for us, so that we may eat our Passover together." They made preparations there, and.
When evening came, Jesus was reclining at the table with the Twelve.When the hour came, the twelve came with the twelve.When they arrived, Jesus and his apostles came to the table, and they sat down at it.Jesus and his twelve apostles then went to the tomb, where they were buried.
And he said to them, "I have eagerly desired to eat this Passover with you before I suffer.For I tell you, I will not eat it again until it finds fulfillment in the kingdom of God."
It was just before the Passover Feast.Jesus knew that the time had come for him to leave this world and go to the Father. Having loved his own who were in the world, he now showed them the full extent of his love. The evening meal was being served, and the devil had already prompted Judas Iscariot, son of Simon, to betray Jesus. Jesus knew that that the Father had put all things under his power, and that he had come from God and was returning to God; so he got up from the meal, took off his outer clothing, and wrapped a towel around his waist.After that, he poured water into a basin and began to wash his disciples' feet, drying them with the towel that was wrapped around him. He came to Simon Peter, who said to him, "Lord, are you going to wash my feet?" Jesus replied, "You do not realize now what I am doing, but later you will understand." "No," said Peter, "you shall never wash my hands," Jesus answered, "Unless I wash you, you have no part with me." "Then, Lord," Simon Peter replied, “not just my feet but my hands and my head as well!"Jesus answered, �.
While they were reclining at the table eating, he said, "I tell you the truth, one of you will betray me--one who is eating with me." But the hand of him who is going to betray me is with mine on the table. The Son of Man will go as it has been decreed, but woe to that man who betrays him." "I am not referring to all of you; I know those I have chosen. But this is to fulfill the scripture: 'He who shares my bread has lifted up his heel against me.'
They were very sad and began to say to him one after the other, "Surely not I, Lord?" Jesus replied, "The one who has dipped his hand into the bowl with me will betray me. The Son of Man will go just as it is written about him. But woe to that man who betrays the son of Man! It would be better for him if he had not been born." Then Judas, the one who would betray him, said, "Are you sure, Rabbi?" Jesus answered, "Yes, it is you." Then one by one they said to him, "Rabbi, surely not I?" "It is one of the Twelve," he replied, “one who dips bread into the cup with me. .
Jesus answered, "It is the one to whom I will give this piece of bread when I have dipped it in the dish." Then Jesus said to him, "Do not eat the piece of food that has been given to you, because it is not good for you; but take it and eat it."
"What you are about to do, do quickly," Jesus told him, but no one at the meal understood why Jesus said this to him. Since Judas had charge of the money, some thought Jesus was telling him to buy what was needed for the Feast, or to give something to the poor. .
You will look for me, and just as I told the Jews, so I tell you now: Where I am going, you cannot come. "A new command I give you: Love one another.When he was gone, Jesus said, "Now is the Son of Man glorified and God is glorified in him. .
While they were eating, Jesus took bread, gave thanks and broke it, and gave it to his disciples, saying, "Take and eat; this is my body." And he took the cup and offered it to one of the dogs and said, "This cup is for you, Lord; take it and eat it."
Then he took the cup, gave thanks and offered it to them, saying, "Drink from it, all of you. This is my blood of the covenant, which is poured out for many for the forgiveness of sins. "This cup is the new covenant in my blood, which has been poured out by me for you.In the same way, after the meal, he took another cup and gave thanks to God, giving thanks to the Father for giving him the strength to endure the sufferings of the world and to give him the power to bring about the redemption of all things.After the meal he took a cup and offered to them.He said, "Take this cup and drink from it; it is my flesh and blood that I have given to you for the purpose of washing you clean."
I tell you, I will not drink of this fruit of the vine from now on until that day when I drink it anew with you in my Father's kingdom." After taking the cup, he gave thanks and said, "Take this and divide it among you. .
Also a dispute arose among them as to which of them was considered to be greatest.Jesus said to them, "The kings of the Gentiles lord it over them; and those who exercise authority over them call themselves Benefactors. But you are not to be like that. Instead, the greatest among you should be like the youngest, and the one who rules is like the son of the woman who brought him bread.For you are the children of God, and you will inherit the kingdom and the spoils of all that he has given you.And I will give you the kingdom, just as my Father gave the twelve tribes of Israel, so that you may rule over them.And you will eat and drink at my table in my kingdom, and sit on thrones, judging the twelve Tribes of Israel."(Mark 8:33-35) .
But he replied, "Lord, I am ready to go with you to prison and to death." Jesus answered, "I tell you, Peter, before the rooster crows today, you will deny three times that you know me." Peter Peter asked Jesus, "Where are you going, Lord?"Jesus said, "You cannot follow now, but you will follow later," Peter asked, "Why can't I follow you now?I will lay down my life for you, Lord." Jesus said to Peter, "Do not doubt, but do not be discouraged, because I have come for you because you have not chosen the right path, but have chosen the wicked one."
"Do not let your hearts be troubled. Trust in God; trust also in me. In my Father's house are many rooms; if it were not so, I would have told you. And if I go and prepare a place for you, I will come back and take you to be with me that you also may be where I am. You know the way to the place where I was going." Thomas said to him, "Lord, we don't know where you are going, so how can we know the Way?" Jesus answered, "I am the way and the truth and the life. No one comes to the Father except through me. If you really knew me, you would know my Father as well. From now on, you do know him and have seen him. Philip said, "Don't you know me, Philip, even after I have been among you such a long time? Anyone who has seen me has seen the Father. How can you say, 'Show us the Father'? Don't you believe that I am in the Father, and that the Father is in me? The words I say to you are not just my own. Rather, it is the Father living in me, who is doing his work. Believe me when I.
"If you love me, you will obey what I command. And I will ask the Father, and he will give you another Counselor to be with you forever-- the Spirit of truth. The world cannot accept him, because it neither sees him nor knows him. But you know him, for he lives with you and will be in you. I will not leave you as orphans; I will come to you. Before long, the world will not see me anymore, but you will see me. Because I live, you also will live. On that day you will realize that I am in my Father, as you are in me, and that you are also in me."Then Jesus said to him, "If anyone comes to me and worships me, he will be my brother, and whoever has faith in me will also have faith in him."But if anyone does not love me and follows my teaching, even if it is from the world and not from the heart, yet he will come and live among us; if he does not give up his life for our sake, but rather puts his life in service for the sake of the world, then he will not be a hindrance to us but will be a blessing to us."If.
He said to them, "But now if you have a purse, take it, and also a bag; and if you don't have a sword, sell your cloak and buy one. It is written: 'And he was numbered with the transgressors'; and I tell you that this must be fulfilled in me. Yes, what is written about me is reaching its fulfillment." The disciples said, "See, Lord, here are two swords.That is enough," he replied.
Jesus went out as usual to the Mount of Olives, and his disciples followed him. "Jesus said to his disciples, "Come now; let us leave.When they had sung a hymn, they went out to the mount of olives.
Then Jesus told them, "This very night you will all fall away on account of me, for it is written: "'I will strike the shepherd, and the sheep of the flock will be scattered.' But after I have risen, I will go ahead of you into Galilee." "I tell you the truth," Jesus answered, "this very night, before the rooster crows, you will disown me three times." But Peter declared, "Even if I have to die with you, I would never disown you." And all the other disciples said the same. .
"I am the true vine, and my Father is the gardener. He cuts off every branch in me that bears no fruit, while every branch that does bear fruit he prunes so that it will be even more fruitful. You are already clean because of the word I have spoken to you. Remain in me, and I will remain in you. No branch can bear fruit by itself; it must remain in the vine. Neither can you bear fruit unless you remain in me. "As the Father has loved me, so have I loved you. Now remain in my love.If you obey my commands, you will remain and remain with me, just as I have obeyed my Father's commands and remain in his love."I have told you this so that my joy may be in you and that your joy can be in your friends.You are my friends if you do what I command.You did not choose me, but I chose you and appointed you to go and bear fruit--fruit that will last.Then the Father will give you whatever you ask in my name.This is my command: Love each other as I had loved you and you did not chose me but I have chosen you and I have gone and told you what you can do.
"If the world hates you, keep in mind that it hated me first. If you belonged to the world, it would love you as its own. "When the Counselor comes, whom I will send to you from the Father, the Spirit of truth who goes out from the father, he will testify about me. "And you also must testify, for you have been with me from the beginning. "If you are hungry, I will give you a portion of my share, and if you want to share it with me, you must put it in the place where it belongs to you. "But if you do not want to eat my food, I say to you, 'Do not throw it away. .
"Now I am going to him who sent me, yet none of you asks me, 'Where are you going?' Because I have said these things, you are filled with grief. "I have much more to say to you, more than you can now bear. But when he, the Spirit of truth, comes, he will guide you into all truth. He will not speak on his own; he will speak only what he hears, and he will tell you what is yet to come. "He will bring glory to me by taking from what is mine and making it known to you.All that belongs to the Father is mine.That is why I said the Spirit will take from what I am and make it available to you." .
Jesus saw that they wanted to ask him about this, so he said to them, "Are you asking one another what I meant when I said, 'In a little while you will see me no more, and then after a little bit of time, because I am going to the Father'?" They kept asking, "What does he mean by 'a little while'? We don't understand what he is saying." He said to him, "I tell you the truth, you will weep and mourn while the world rejoices; you will grieve, but your grief will turn to joy. A woman giving birth to a child has pain because her time has come; but when her baby is born she forgets the anguish because of her joy that a child is born into the world. So with you: Now is your time of grief, but I will see you again and you will rejoice, and no one will take away your joy. In that day you will no longer ask me anything. .
"Though I have been speaking figuratively, a time is coming when I will no longer use this kind of language but will tell you plainly about my Father. In that day you will ask in my name. I am not saying that I will ask the Father on your behalf. No, the Father himself loves you because you have loved me and have believed that I came from God. "I have told you these things, so that in me you may have peace. In this world you will have trouble, but take heart! I have overcome the world."
After Jesus said this, he looked toward heaven and prayed: "Father, the time has come. Glorify your Son, that your Son may glorify you. For you granted him authority over all people that he might give eternal life to all those you have given him. Now this is eternal life: that they may know you, the only true God, and Jesus Christ, whom you have sent. I have brought you glory on earth by completing the work you gave me to do. And now, Father, glorify me in your presence with the glory I had with you before the world began. "My prayer is not for them alone, but for those who will believe in me through their message, that all of them may be one, that they too may be brought to complete unity to let the world know that you sent me and have loved them even as you have loved me.May they also be in us so that the world may believe that they have sent me.I have given them your word and the world has hated them, for they are not of the world any more than I am of it.My prayer was not that you take them out of the World, but that you protect them from the evil one, for you have been lost,.
He took Peter and the two sons of Zebedee along with him, and he began to be sorrowful and troubled. Then he said to them, "My soul is overwhelmed with sorrow to the point of death. Stay here and keep watch with me." They went to a place called Gethsemane, and Jesus said to his disciples, "Sit here while I pray." When he had finished praying, Jesus left with his disciples and crossed the Kidron Valley. .
Going a little farther, he fell with his face to the ground and prayed, "My Father, if it is possible, may this cup be taken from me. Yet not as I will, but as you will." He withdrew about a stone's throw beyond them, knelt down and prayed again, "Father, if you are willing, take this cup from me; yet not my will be done, but yours be done." An angel from heaven appeared to him and strengthened him. And being in anguish, he prayed more earnestly, and his sweat was like drops of blood falling on the ground. When he rose from prayer and went back to the disciples, he found them asleep, exhausted from sorrow.
He went away a second time and prayed, "My Father, if it is not possible for this cup to be taken away unless I drink it, may your will be done." Then he returned to his disciples and found them sleeping. "Simon," he said to Peter, "are you asleep? Could you not keep watch for one hour? Watch and pray so that you will not fall into temptation. The spirit is willing, but the body is weak." Once more he went away and prayed the same thing.
So he left them and went away once more and prayed the third time, saying the same thing.Then he returned to the disciples and said to them, "Are you still sleeping and resting? Look, the hour is near, and the Son of Man is betrayed into the hands of sinners. Rise, let us go! Here comes my betrayer!" When he came back, he again found them sleeping, because their eyes were heavy.
With him was a large crowd armed with swords and clubs, sent from the chief priests and the elders of the people. Now the betrayer had arranged a signal with them: "The one I kiss is the man; arrest him." Going at once to Jesus, Judas said, "Greetings, Rabbi!" and kissed him. Jesus replied, "Friend, do what you came for." While he was still speaking a crowd came up, and the man who was called Judas, one of the Twelve, was leading them. He approached Jesus to kiss him, but Jesus asked him, "Judas, are you betraying the Son of Man with a kiss?" Now Judas knew the place, because Jesus had often met there with his disciples. .
Jesus, knowing all that was going to happen to him, went out and asked them, "Who is it you want?" "Jesus of Nazareth," they replied. "I am he," Jesus said. (And Judas the traitor was standing there with them.).
"Put your sword back in its place," Jesus said to him, "for all who draw the sword will die by the sword. Do you think I cannot call on my Father, and he will at once put at my disposal more than twelve legions of angels? But how then would the Scriptures be fulfilled that say it must happen in this way?" The men seized Jesus and arrested him. Then one of those standing near drew his sword and struck the servant of the high priest, cutting off his ear. When Jesus' followers saw what was going to happen, they said, "Lord, should we strike with our swords?" And one of them struck the Servant of the High Priest.But Jesus answered, "No more of this!"And he touched the man's ear and healed him.Then Simon Peter, who had a sword, drew it and struck Malchus.Jesus commanded Peter, "Shall I not drink the cup the Father has given me?"
At that time Jesus said to the crowd, "Am I leading a rebellion, that you have come out with swords and clubs to capture me? Every day I sat in the temple courts teaching, and you did not arrest me. But this has all taken place that the writings of the prophets might be fulfilled. "But the Scriptures must be fulfilled," he said, "and you will not be able to understand them until they are fulfilled." .
" Then all the disciples deserted him and fled. "Then the detachment of soldiers with its commander and the Jewish officials arrested Jesus.They bound him . . . Then the soldiers and the officials with their commander arrested Jesus and bound him. .
A young man, wearing nothing but a linen garment, was following Jesus.When they seized him, he fled naked, leaving his garment behind.He was brought to the house of the Lord, and there he was crucified.
Those who had arrested Jesus took him to Caiaphas, the high priest, where the teachers of the law and the elders had assembled. They took him away and took him into the house of Caiophas, and there he was crucified. .
and brought him first to Annas, who was the father-in-law of Caiaphas, the high priest that year. . . . and brought him to the Jews, who had gathered in the Temple Mount. .
But Peter followed him at a distance, right up to the courtyard of the high priest. He entered and sat down with the guards to see the outcome. Peter followed at a long distance.Simon Peter and another disciple were following Jesus.The other disciple came back, spoke to the girl on duty there and brought Peter in.Because this disciple was known to Jesus, he went with Jesus into the high-priest's courtyard, but Peter had to wait outside at the door.The girl who was on duty at the gate brought Peter into the courtyard and brought him to the fire.Jesus said to the other disciple, "Do not come with me; go with another one who is also with me."
Now Peter was sitting out in the courtyard, and a servant girl came to him. "You also were with Jesus of Galilee," she said. But he denied it before them all. "I don't know what you're talking about," he said. Then he went out to the gateway, where another girl saw him and said to the people there, "This fellow was with Jesus in Galilee.While Peter was below in the firelight, one of the servant girls of the high priest came by.When she saw Peter warming himself, she looked closely at him.She said, "You are not one of his disciples, are you?"The girl at the door asked Peter.He replied, "I am not."It was cold, and the servants and officials stood around a fire they had made to keep warm.Peter also was standing with them, warming himself. .
and went out into the entryway.and went back into the living room, where he saw a woman standing in the doorway, and he said, “I’m going to call the police.”.
Meanwhile, the high priest questioned Jesus about his disciples and his teaching. "I always taught in synagogues or at the temple, where all the Jews come together. I said nothing in secret. Why question me? Ask those who heard me. Surely they know what I said." When Jesus said this, one of the officials nearby struck him in the face. "If I said something wrong," Jesus replied, "testify as to what is wrong. But if I spoke the truth, why did you strike me?" Then Annas sent him, still bound, to Caiaphas the high judge.
The chief priests and the whole Sanhedrin were looking for false evidence against Jesus so that they could put him to death. But they did not find any, though many false witnesses came forward. Finally two came forward and declared, "This fellow said, 'I am able to destroy the temple of God and rebuild it in three days.'" Then the high priest stood up and said to Jesus, "Are you not going to answer? What is this testimony that these men are bringing against you?" But Jesus remained silent.The high priest said to him, "I charge you under oath by the living God: Tell us if you are the Christ, the Son of God." "Yes, it is as you say," Jesus replied.Jesus replied."But I say to all of you: In the future you will see the son of Man sitting at the right hand of the Mighty One and coming on the clouds of heaven." Then the priest tore his clothes and said, "He has spoken blasphemy! Why do we need any more witnesses? Look, now you have heard the blasphemy. What do you think?He is worthy of death," they answered.The chief priest and the entire Sanhedr were looking to find false evidence to prove that Jesus was not worthy of.
Then they spit in his face and struck him with their fists. Others slapped him and said, "Prophesy to us, Christ. Who hit you?" They all condemned him as worthy of death. Then some began to spit at him; they blindfolded him, seized him by the beard and tore his clothes, and threw him to the ground.The crowd that had surrounded him began to laugh and jeer at him, and they called him a blasphemer and a thief and a liar and said that he deserved to be thrown into the sea.
" He denied it again, with an oath: "I don't know the man!" When the servant girl saw him there, she said again to those standing around, "This fellow is one of them." Again he denied it. .
After a little while, those standing there went up to Peter and said, "Surely you are one of them, for your accent gives you away." Peter replied, "Man, I don't know what you're talking about! One of the high priest's servants, a relative of the man whose ear Peter had cut off, challenged him, "Didn't I see you with him in the olive grove?" Again Peter denied it .
Then Peter remembered the word Jesus had spoken to him: " Just as he was speaking, the rooster crowed. and at that moment a rooster began to crow. . " Immediately Peter remembered what Jesus had said to him, and he said to the crowd, "Do not be afraid, but if anyone comes to me and knocks on my door, I will answer him; but if he does not come to you first, let him first come to me."
Immediately a rooster crowed.Then Peter remembered the word Jesus had spoken: "Before the rooster crows, you will disown me three times." And he went outside and wept bitterly. "And he broke down and he wept.The Lord turned and looked straight at Peter and wiped the tears from his face with his hair, and then he went and sat down on the right side of the high altar, and there he sat down and looked at the one who had given life to him.
Early in the morning, all the chief priests and the elders of the people came to the decision to put Jesus to death. . Very early in the early morning, the Chief priests, with the elders, the teachers of the law and the whole Sanhedrin, reached a decision.At daybreak the council of the elders and the people met together, and Jesus was led before them.
When Judas, who had betrayed him, saw that Jesus was condemned, he was seized with remorse and returned the thirty silver coins to the chief priests and the elders. "I have sinned," he said, "for I have betrayed innocent blood.What is that to us?" they replied. "That's your responsibility." So Judas threw the money into the temple and left. Then he went away and hanged himself. .
He opposes payment of taxes to Caesar and claims to be Christ, a king." Then the Jews led Jesus from Caiaphas to the palace of the Roman governor. By now it was early morning, and to avoid ceremonial uncleanness the Jews did not enter the palace; they wanted to be able to eat the Passover. So Pilate came out to them and asked, "What charges are you bringing against this man?" "If he were not a criminal," they replied, "we would not have handed him over to you." Pilate said, "Take him yourselves and judge him by your own law." "But we have no right to execute anyone," the Jews objected. .
Meanwhile Jesus stood before the governor, and the governor asked him, "Are you the king of the Jews?Yes, it is as you say," Jesus replied. When he was accused by the chief priests and the elders, he gave no answer. Then he went back inside the palace, summoned Jesus and asked him if he had an idea about being king, and Jesus answered, "Is that your own idea," Jesus asked, "or did others talk to you about me?" "Am I a Jew?" Pilate replied.What is it you have done?" Jesus said, "My kingdom is not of this world, my kingdom is from another place." "You are a king, then!" said Pilate.Meanwhile, Jesus stood in the courtyard of the palace and when the governor called him inside, he went inside and told the governor that he was going to be crucified.When the governor announced to the crowd, "I find no basis for a charge against this man," and he dismissed him, Jesus went back into the palace where he had been sitting, and he was crucified with the men who had thrown the stones at him.Jesus then went out again to the Jews and said to them, "You will not be able to kill me, because.
But they insisted, "He stirs up the people all over Judea by his teaching. He started in Galilee and has come all the way here." On hearing this, Pilate asked if the man was a Galilean. When he learned that Jesus was under Herod's jurisdiction, he sent him to Herod, who was also in Jerusalem at that time. When Herod saw Jesus, he was greatly pleased, because for a long time he had been wanting to see him. .
While Pilate was sitting on the judge's seat, his wife sent him this message: "Don't have anything to do with that innocent man, for I have suffered a great deal today in a dream because of him."
Pilate called together the chief priests, the rulers and the people, and said to them, "You brought me this man as one who was inciting the people to rebellion. I have examined him in your presence and have found no basis for your charges against him. Neither has Herod, for he sent him back to us; as you can see, he has done nothing to deserve death. Therefore, I will punish him and then release him."
Now it was the governor's custom at the Feast to release a prisoner chosen by the crowd.At that time they had a notorious prisoner, called Barabbas. See Footnote But it is your custom for me to release to you one prisoner at the time of the Passover.Do you want me release 'the king of the Jews'?"The crowd came up and asked Pilate to do for them what he usually did.The crowd asked him, "Which one of you do you want us to release: the king or Jesus who is called Christ?"For he knew it was out of envy that the chief priests had handed Jesus over to him.He said, "Do you wish me to do you what I usually do?"They said they wished him to do what he normally did, and he answered them, "Yes, I wish you to do me what I normally do."The crowd then went away satisfied with the answer they had received.The next day, on the first day of Passover, there was a feast at the Temple, and it was at this time that the people came to Pilate and asked him what he should do.He answered, "It is the custom of the people at the feast to release one prisoner whom they have chosen.
But the chief priests and the elders persuaded the crowd to ask for Barabbas and to have Jesus executed. "Which of the two do you want me to release to you?" asked the governor. "Barabbas," they answered. "Jesus, but not him," replied the crowd.The crowd then began to shout, "Away with this man! Release him to us!" (Jesus had been thrown into prison for an insurrection in the city, and for murder.)The crowd shouted, "No, not him, give us Barabba!" (Barabba had taken part in a rebellion.)The chief priests stirred up the crowd again, and they called for Jesus to be executed.
For the third time he spoke to them: "Why? What crime has this man committed? I have found in him no grounds for the death penalty. Therefore I will have him punished and then release him." But with loud shouts they insistently demanded that he be crucified, and their shouts prevailed. .
Then the governor's soldiers took Jesus into the Praetorium and gathered the whole company of soldiers around him. They stripped him and put a scarlet robe on him, and then twisted together a crown of thorns and set it on his head. They clothed him in a purple robe and went up to him again and again, saying, "Hail, king of the Jews!" And they struck him in the face.Then Pilate took Jesus and had him flogged. .
Once more Pilate came out and said to the Jews, "Look, I am bringing him out to you to let you know that I find no basis for a charge against him." The Jews insisted, "We have a law, and according to that law he must die, because he claimed to be the Son of God." When Pilate heard this, he was even more afraid, and he went back inside the palace. "Where do you come from?" he asked Jesus, but Jesus gave him no answer. "Don't you realize I have power either to free you or to crucify you?" Jesus answered, "You would have no power over me if it were not given to you from above. Therefore the one who handed me over to you is guilty of a greater sin." From then on, Pilate tried to set Jesus free, but the Jews kept shouting, "If you let this man go, you are no friend of Caesar. .
When Pilate saw that he was getting nowhere, but that instead an uproar was starting, he took water and washed his hands in front of the crowd. "I am innocent of this man's blood," he said. "It is your responsibility!"
So Pilate decided to grant their demand. He released the man who had been thrown into prison for insurrection and murder, the one they asked for, and surrendered Jesus to their will. Finally Pilate handed him over to them to be crucified.Then he released Barabbas to them.But he had Jesus flogged, and handed them over to be crucifixified.
And when they had mocked him, they took off the purple robe and put his own clothes on him. Then they led him out to crucify him.So the soldiers took charge of Jesus. Carrying his own cross, he went out to the place of the Skull (which in Aramaic is called Golgotha).
A certain man from Cyrene, Simon, the father of Alexander and Rufus, was passing by on his way in from the country, and they forced him to carry the cross. .
Jesus turned and said to them, "Daughters of Jerusalem, do not weep for me; weep for yourselves and for your children. For the time will come when you will say, 'Blessed are the barren women, the wombs that never bore and the breasts that never nursed!' Then "'they will say to the mountains, "Fall on us!" and to the hills, "Cover us!"' For if men do these things when the tree is green, what will happen when it is dry?"
They came to a place called Golgotha (which means The Place of the Skull). There they offered Jesus wine to drink, mixed with gall; but after tasting it, he refused to drink it. When they had crucified him, they divided up his clothes by casting lots. .
Jesus said, "Father, forgive them, for they do not know what they are doing.Jesus said: "I will forgive you, for I have been tempted many times, and you have not been able to keep your promise."
" And they divided up his clothes by casting lots. When the soldiers crucified Jesus, they took his clothes, dividing them into four shares, one for each of them, with the undergarment remaining. This garment was seamless, woven in one piece from top to bottom. " And they cast lots to see what each would get.
It was the third hour when they crucified him.It was also the first hour when he was crucified, and the second hour when his body was thrown into the fire, and he was thrown to the fire.
Above his head they placed the written charge against him: THIS IS JESUS, THE KING OF THE JEWS. The written notice was written in Aramaic, Latin and Greek.The chief priests of the Jews protested to Pilate, "Do not write 'The King of the Judaeans,' but that this man claimed to be king of the Judeans."Pilate answered, "What I have written, I've written."Many of the Jewish people read this sign, for the place where Jesus was crucified was near the city, and the sign was written with Aramaic and Latin, and with Greek and Aramaic written below it.|sc This is the sign of the accusation against him, which read:|sc THIS IS THE KINGS OF JERUSALEM, THE LORD OF GOD, THE GOD OF THE PEOPLE OF THE EARTH, THE FATHER OF THE LION AND THE LIVING BEAST, THE GOVERNMENT OF THE LORD, AND THE LORD GOD OF ALL NATURAL GODS.The people of the city of Caesarea and the people of Judea and the inhabitants of the Galilee read the sign.
Two other men, both criminals, were also led out with him to be executed.They crucified two robbers with him, one on his right and one on their left.Two robbers were crucified with him.One robber was crucified on the right side, and the other on the left.
Those who passed by hurled insults at him, shaking their heads and saying, "You who are going to destroy the temple and build it in three days, save yourself! Come down from the cross, if you are the Son of God!" In the same way the chief priests, the teachers of the law and the elders mocked him. "He saved others," they said, "but he can't save himself! He's the King of Israel! Let him come down now from the Cross, and we will believe in him. He trusts in God. Let God rescue him now if he wants him, for he said, 'I am the son of God.'" The robbers who were crucified with him also heaped insults on him. See Footnote Those who passed on hurled insults and said to him, "So, come down from this cross and save yourself, for you are not worthy of the name given to you by the prophets and the righteous; you are only a figment of the human's imagination; you can do nothing of great import until you are brought to life." In this way the robbers, who had been crucified together with him, hurled insults upon him among themselves, and in the same manner mocked him among himself.Those who pass by hurled.
They offered him wine vinegar and said, "If you are the king of the Jews, save yourself."The soldiers also came up and mocked him.The soldiers said to him, "You are the son of a prostitute, but you are not worthy of the name of your father."
One of the criminals who hung there hurled insults at him: "Aren't you the Christ? Save yourself and us!" But the other criminal rebuked him. "Jesus, remember me when you come into your kingdom. " Jesus answered him, "I tell you the truth, today you will be with me in paradise."
Near the cross of Jesus stood his mother, his mother's sister, Mary the wife of Clopas, and Mary Magdalene.When Jesus saw his mother there, and the disciple whom he loved standing nearby, he said to his mother: "Dear woman, here is your son," and to the disciple, "Here is your mother."
It was now about the sixth hour, and darkness came over the whole land until the ninth hour, for the sun stopped shining.From the fifth hour until the seventh hour, the sun was shining, and from the seventh to the eighth hour, it was shining.At the seventh and eighth hour the sun ceased to shine, and the moon ceased to be visible, and it was now between the fifth and the seventh hours that the earth became dark.
About the ninth hour Jesus cried out in a loud voice, "Eloi, Eloi, lama sabachthani?"--which means, "My God, my God, why have you forsaken me?" When some of those standing there heard this, they said, "He's calling Elijah."
Immediately one of them ran and got a sponge. He filled it with wine vinegar, put it on a stick, and offered it to Jesus to drink. Later, knowing that all was now completed, and so that the Scripture would be fulfilled, Jesus said, "I am thirsty.A jar of wine vinegar was there, so they soaked a sponge in it, put the sponge on a stalk of the hyssop plant, and lifted it up to Jesus' lips.
"Now leave him alone. Let's see if Elijah comes to take him down," he said.The others said, "Now leave us alone.Let's see who comes to save him."The rest said, “Now leave them alone.”.
When he had received the drink, Jesus said, "It is finished.When he saw the crowds gathering around him, he took the cup and handed it to one of them and said, “Take this cup and give it to me.”.
Jesus called out with a loud voice, "Father, into your hands I commit my spirit. "And he poured out his heart and poured out all of his life into the empty pit of my stomach.
And when Jesus had cried out again in a loud voice, he gave up his spirit.With a loud cry, Jesus breathed his last. " When Jesus had said this, he had said, "I will give up my spirit. " With that, he bowed his head and gave up the spirit.
At that moment the curtain of the temple was torn in two from top to bottom. The tombs broke open and the bodies of many holy people who had died were raised to life. They came out of the tombs, and after Jesus' resurrection they went into the holy city and appeared to many people. .
When the centurion and those with him who were guarding Jesus saw the earthquake and all that had happened, they were terrified, and exclaimed, "Surely he was the Son of God!" .
When all the people who had gathered to witness this sight saw what took place, they beat their breasts and went away.When the people of the city saw what had happened, they were very angry and started beating their breasts.
They had followed Jesus from Galilee to care for his needs. Some women were watching from a distance. Among them were Mary Magdalene, Mary the mother of James the younger and of Joses, and Salome. Many other women who had come up with him to Jerusalem were also there. .
Because the Jews did not want the bodies left on the crosses during the Sabbath, they asked Pilate to have the legs broken and the bodies taken down. The soldiers therefore came and broke the legs of the first man who had been crucified with Jesus, and then those of the other. But when they came to Jesus and found that he was already dead, they did not break his legs. Instead, one of the soldiers pierced Jesus' side with a spear, bringing a sudden flow of blood and water. .
As evening approached, there came a rich man from Arimathea, named Joseph, who had himself become a disciple of Jesus. Going to Pilate, he asked for Jesus' body, and Pilate ordered that it be given to him. It was Preparation Day (that is, the day before the Sabbath). Now Joseph was a member of the Council, a good and upright man who had not consented to their decision and action, but secretly because he feared the Jews, with Pilate's permission, he came and took the body away. .
Joseph took the body, wrapped it in a clean linen cloth, and placed it in his own new tomb that he had cut out of the rock. He rolled a big stone in front of the entrance to the tomb and went away. So Joseph bought some linen cloth.Nicodemus brought a mixture of myrrh and aloes, about seventy-five pounds.Taking Jesus' body, the two of them wrapped it, with the spices, in strips of linen.This was in accordance with Jewish burial customs.At the place where Jesus was crucified, there was a garden, and in the garden a new tomb, in which no one had ever been laid.Because it was the Jewish day of Preparation and since the tomb was nearby, they laid Jesus there.The Sabbath was about to begin. .
Mary Magdalene and the other Mary were sitting there opposite the tomb. The women who had come with Jesus from Galilee followed Joseph and saw the tomb and how his body was laid in it.
Then they went home and prepared spices and perfumes.Then they rested on the Sabbath in obedience to the commandment. . But they did not rest until the tenth day of the week. .
The next day, the one after Preparation Day, the chief priests and the Pharisees went to Pilate. "Sir," they said, "we remember that while he was still alive that deceiver said, 'After three days I will rise again.' So give the order for the tomb to be made secure until the third day. Otherwise, his disciples may come and steal the body and tell the people that he has been raised from the dead. This last deception will be worse than the first."
When the Sabbath was over, Mary Magdalene, Mary the mother of James, and Salome bought spices so that they might go to anoint Jesus' body.They went to the house of the Lord, and there they found the body of Jesus lying in a field of thorns and thistle, and the spices were laid on it.
After the Sabbath, at dawn on the first day of the week, Mary Magdalene and the other Mary went to look at the tomb. Very early on the morning of the next day, they were on their way to the tomb and they asked each other, "Who will roll the stone away from the entrance of the tomb? .
There was a violent earthquake, for an angel of the Lord came down from heaven and, going to the tomb, rolled back the stone and sat on it. His appearance was like lightning, and his clothes were white as snow. .
But when they looked up, they saw that the stone, which was very large, had been rolled away. They found the stone rolled away from the tomb, and they found the tomb empty.
but when they entered, they did not find the body of the Lord Jesus.However, Jesus said, “Those who come to me will not see the body, but they will see the Kingdom of God.” (Mark 2:34) .
As they entered the tomb, they saw a young man dressed in a white robe sitting on the right side, and they were alarmed.While they were wondering about this, suddenly two men in clothes that gleamed like lightning stood beside them.
The angel said to the women, "Do not be afraid, for I know that you are looking for Jesus, who was crucified. He is not here; he has risen, just as he said. Come and see the place where he lay. "And the men, who were with him, saw the angel and said to him, "Why do you look for the living among the dead, when you seek the dead only?"And the angel said, "It is written, 'I have come to bring you good news of great joy that will be a great feast for you on the day of Pentecost; but be not afraid, because you will be greatly troubled.'" .
Remember how he told you, while he was still with you in Galilee: 'The Son of Man must be delivered into the hands of sinful men, be crucified and on the third day be raised again.'" Then they remembered his words.
Then go quickly and tell his disciples: 'He has risen from the dead and is going ahead of you into Galilee. There you will see him.' Now I have told you. . .
Trembling and bewildered, the women went out and fled from the tomb. They said nothing to anyone, because they were afraid.They did not know how long they had been in the tomb, but they were sure that it had been at least a thousand years.
So the men hurried away from the tomb, afraid yet filled with joy, and the women hurried away, too, to be caught by the men’s eyes, and to be lost in their own grief.
So she came running to Simon Peter and the other disciple, the one Jesus loved, and she said, “Simon, come to me, and I will give you what you need.’’.
and said, "They have taken the Lord out of the tomb, and we don't know where they have put him!"said, "But where is he, Lord, and where does he go?"Jesus replied, "He is not here; he is risen from the dead, and he will come to us."
Peter, however, got up and ran to the tomb. Bending over, he saw the strips of linen lying by themselves, and he went away, wondering to himself what had happened. So the other disciple, who had come first, also went into the tomb and saw and believed, (They still did not understand from Scripture that Jesus had to rise from the dead.)Then the disciples went back to their homes,.
When Jesus rose early on the first day of the week, he appeared first to Mary Magdalene, out of whom he had driven seven demons. but Mary stood outside the tomb crying. As she wept, she bent over to look into the tomb and saw two angels in white, seated where Jesus' body had been, one at the head and the other at the foot. .
and ran to tell his disciples. Suddenly Jesus met them. "Greetings," he said. They came to him, clasped his feet and worshiped him. Then Jesus said to them, "Do not be afraid. Go and tell my brothers to go to Galilee; there they will see me."
When the chief priests had met with the elders and devised a plan, they gave the soldiers a large sum of money, telling them, "You are to say, 'His disciples came during the night and stole him away while we were asleep.' If this report gets to the governor, we will satisfy him and keep you out of trouble." So the soldiers did as they were instructed. .
When they came back from the tomb, they told all these things to the Eleven and to all the others. It was Mary Magdalene, Joanna, Mary the mother of James, and the others with them who told this to the apostles. But they did not believe the women, because their words seemed to them like nonsense. .
and saying, "It is true! The Lord has risen and has appeared to Simon."and saying that, "He has risen from the dead and has ascended to the glory of the Lord," and that "the Lord is with him wherever he goes; the Lord is his shepherd and his truth; he will not want to leave him."
Then some of our companions went to the tomb and found it just as the women had said, but him they did not see." He said to them, "How foolish you are, and how slow of heart to believe all that the prophets have spoken! Did not the Christ have to suffer these things and then enter his glory?" And beginning with Moses and all the Prophets, he explained to them what was said in all the Scriptures concerning himself.
As they approached the village to which they were going, Jesus acted as if he were going farther. But they urged him strongly, "Stay with us, for it is nearly evening; the day is almost over." So he went in to stay with them. When he was at the table with them, he took bread, gave thanks, broke it and began to give it to them. .
They got up and returned at once to Jerusalem. There they found the Eleven and those with them, assembled together and saying, "It is true! The Lord has risen and has appeared to Simon." Then the two told what had happened on the way, and how Jesus was recognized by them when he broke the bread.
Later Jesus appeared to the Eleven as they were eating; he rebuked them for their lack of faith and their stubborn refusal to believe those who had seen him after he had risen. While they were still talking about this, Jesus himself stood among them and said to them, "Peace be with you." They were startled and frightened, thinking they saw a ghost. . On the evening of that first day of the week, when the disciples were together, with the doors locked for fear of the Jews, Jesus came and stood among the Jews and said, "Come into the house and eat with me; I will give you something to eat."
Again Jesus said, "Peace be with you! As the Father has sent me, I am sending you." And with that he breathed on them and said, “Receive the Holy Spirit. .
He said to them, "This is what I told you while I was still with you: Everything must be fulfilled that is written about me in the Law of Moses, the Prophets and the Psalms." Then he opened their minds so they could understand the Scriptures. .