"I tell you the truth, if anyone says to this mountain, 'Go, throw yourself into the sea,' and does not doubt in his heart but believes that what he says will happen, it will be done for him. As they approached Jerusalem and came to Bethphage and Bethany at the Mount of Olives, Jesus sent two of his disciples, saying to them, "Go to the village ahead of you, and just as you enter it, you will find a colt tied there, which no one has ever ridden. Jesus saw that they wanted to ask him about this, so he said to them, "Are you asking one another what I meant when I said, 'In a little while you will see me no more, and then after a little while you will see me'? He said to them, "This is what I told you while I was still with you: Everything must be fulfilled that is written about me in the Law of Moses, the Prophets and the Psalms." Jesus replied, "I tell you the truth, if you have faith and do not doubt, not only can you do what was done to the fig tree, but also you can say to this mountain, 'Go, throw yourself into the sea,' and it will be done. One of them, named Cleopas, asked him, "Are you only a visitor to Jerusalem and do not know the things that have happened there in these days?" After he had said this, Jesus was troubled in spirit and testified, "I tell you the truth, one of you is going to betray me." Some of his disciples said to one another, "What does he mean by saying, 'In a little while you will see me no more, and then after a little while you will see me,' and 'Because I am going to the Father'?" As he approached Jerusalem and saw the city, he wept over it and said, "If you, even you, had only known on this day what would bring you peace--but now it is hidden from your eyes. On the first day of the Feast of Unleavened Bread, when it was customary to sacrifice the Passover lamb, Jesus' disciples asked him, "Where do you want us to go and make preparations for you to eat the Passover?" As they approached Jerusalem and came to Bethphage on the Mount of Olives, Jesus sent two disciples, saying to them, "Go to the village ahead of you, and at once you will find a donkey tied there, with her colt by her. As he approached Bethphage and Bethany at the hill called the Mount of Olives, he sent two of his disciples, saying to them, "Go to the village ahead of you, and as you enter it, you will find a colt tied there, which no one has ever ridden. Jesus said to them, "Have you never read in the Scriptures: "'The stone the builders rejected has become the capstone; the Lord has done this, and it is marvelous in our eyes'? And while they were eating, he said, "I tell you the truth, one of you will betray me." Then Jesus said to the chief priests, the officers of the temple guard, and the elders, who had come for him, "Am I leading a rebellion, that you have come with swords and clubs? When the chief priests had met with the elders and devised a plan, they gave the soldiers a large sum of money, telling them, "You are to say, 'His disciples came during the night and stole him away while we were asleep.' Then Jesus told them, "This very night you will all fall away on account of me, for it is written: "'I will strike the shepherd, and the sheep of the flock will be scattered.' Thinking he was the gardener, she said, "Sir, if you have carried him away, tell me where you have put him, and I will get him." When Jesus saw that he had answered wisely, he said to him, "You are not far from the kingdom of God." So the spies questioned him: "Teacher, we know that you speak and teach what is right, and that you do not show partiality but teach the way of God in accordance with the truth. When he comes, he will convict the world of guilt in regard to sin and righteousness and judgment: in regard to sin, because men do not believe in me; in regard to righteousness, because I am going to the Father, where you can see me no longer; and in regard to judgment, because the prince of this world now stands condemned. While they were reclining at the table eating, he said, "I tell you the truth, one of you will betray me--one who is eating with me." That is why I said the Spirit will take from what is mine and make it known to you. He told them, "This is what is written: The Christ will suffer and rise from the dead on the third day, and repentance and forgiveness of sins will be preached in his name to all nations, beginning at Jerusalem. Meanwhile Jesus stood before the governor, and the governor asked him, "Are you the king of the Jews?Yes, it is as you say," Jesus replied. Then one of the Twelve--the one called Judas Iscariot--went to the chief priests and asked, "What are you willing to give me if I hand him over to you?" "Then he will say to those on his left, 'Depart from me, you who are cursed, into the eternal fire prepared for the devil and his angels. But he said to them, "Unless I see the nail marks in his hands and put my finger where the nails were, and put my hand into his side, I will not believe it." Meanwhile a large crowd of Jews found out that Jesus was there and came, not only because of him but also to see Lazarus, whom he had raised from the dead. It is written: 'And he was numbered with the transgressors'; and I tell you that this must be fulfilled in me. When Jesus had finished saying all these things, he said to his disciples, "As you know, the Passover is two days away--and the Son of Man will be handed over to be crucified." They will put you out of the synagogue; in fact, a time is coming when anyone who kills you will think he is offering a service to God. May they be brought to complete unity to let the world know that you sent me and have loved them even as you have loved me. If anyone says anything to you, tell him that the Lord needs them, and he will send them right away." He released the man who had been thrown into prison for insurrection and murder, the one they asked for, and surrendered Jesus to their will. Then he took the cup, gave thanks and offered it to them, saying, "Drink from it, all of you. He said to them, "How foolish you are, and how slow of heart to believe all that the prophets have spoken! Once more Pilate came out and said to the Jews, "Look, I am bringing him out to you to let you know that I find no basis for a charge against him." I will remain in the world no longer, but they are still in the world, and I am coming to you. Later Jesus appeared to the Eleven as they were eating; he rebuked them for their lack of faith and their stubborn refusal to believe those who had seen him after he had risen. Now this is eternal life: that they may know you, the only true God, and Jesus Christ, whom you have sent. And while they still did not believe it because of joy and amazement, he asked them, "Do you have anything here to eat?" He approached Jesus to kiss him, but Jesus asked him, "Judas, are you betraying the Son of Man with a kiss?" And I will ask the Father, and he will give you another Counselor to be with you forever-- the Spirit of truth. They hoped to catch Jesus in something he said so that they might hand him over to the power and authority of the governor. I have given them the glory that you gave me, that they may be one as we are one: I in them and you in me. But the Counselor, the Holy Spirit, whom the Father will send in my name, will teach you all things and will remind you of everything I have said to you. Then the high priest stood up before them and asked Jesus, "Are you not going to answer? On the first day of the Feast of Unleavened Bread, the disciples came to Jesus and asked, "Where do you want us to make preparations for you to eat the Passover?" For John came to you to show you the way of righteousness, and you did not believe him, but the tax collectors and the prostitutes did. Then Judas (not Judas Iscariot) said, "But, Lord, why do you intend to show yourself to us and not to the world?" Those who passed by hurled insults at him, shaking their heads and saying, "You who are going to destroy the temple and build it in three days, save yourself! "He will bring those wretches to a wretched end," they replied, "and he will rent the vineyard to other tenants, who will give him his share of the crop at harvest time." "O Jerusalem, Jerusalem, you who kill the prophets and stone those sent to you, how often I have longed to gather your children together, as a hen gathers her chicks under her wings, but you were not willing. Pilate called together the chief priests, the rulers and the people, and said to them, "You brought me this man as one who was inciting the people to rebellion. Then he returned to the disciples and said to them, "Are you still sleeping and resting? "You will all fall away," Jesus told them, "for it is written: "'I will strike the shepherd, and the sheep will be scattered.' Then he went out to the gateway, where another girl saw him and said to the people there, "This fellow was with Jesus of Nazareth." On the evening of that first day of the week, when the disciples were together, with the doors locked for fear of the Jews, Jesus came and stood among them and said, "Peace be with you!" Then some of our companions went to the tomb and found it just as the women had said, but him they did not see." At that time Jesus said to the crowd, "Am I leading a rebellion, that you have come out with swords and clubs to capture me? The chief priests and our rulers handed him over to be sentenced to death, and they crucified him; but we had hoped that he was the one who was going to redeem Israel. If this report gets to the governor, we will satisfy him and keep you out of trouble." Returning the third time, he said to them, "Are you still sleeping and resting? When the centurion and those with him who were guarding Jesus saw the earthquake and all that had happened, they were terrified, and exclaimed, "Surely he was the Son of God!" And he took bread, gave thanks and broke it, and gave it to them, saying, "This is my body given for you; do this in remembrance of me." Remember how he told you, while he was still with you in Galilee: 'The Son of Man must be delivered into the hands of sinful men, be crucified and on the third day be raised again.'" And he will send his angels with a loud trumpet call, and they will gather his elect from the four winds, from one end of the heavens to the other. Then the high priest stood up and said to Jesus, "Are you not going to answer? "I am coming to you now, but I say these things while I am still in the world, so that they may have the full measure of my joy within them. Jesus, knowing all that was going to happen to him, went out and asked them, "Who is it you want?" "Teacher," they said, "we know you are a man of integrity and that you teach the way of God in accordance with the truth. But Jesus said, "As for what you see here, the time will come when not one stone will be left on another; every one of them will be thrown down." But these are written that you may believe that Jesus is the Christ, the Son of God, and that by believing you may have life in his name. Then go quickly and tell his disciples: 'He has risen from the dead and is going ahead of you into Galilee. "What you are about to do, do quickly," Jesus told him, but no one at the meal understood why Jesus said this to him. "Then the righteous will answer him, 'Lord, when did we see you hungry and feed you, or thirsty and give you something to drink? After taking the cup, he gave thanks and said, "Take this and divide it among you. The teachers of the law and the chief priests looked for a way to arrest him immediately, because they knew he had spoken this parable against them. The chief priests and the whole Sanhedrin were looking for evidence against Jesus so that they could put him to death, but they did not find any. But understand this: If the owner of the house had known at what time of night the thief was coming, he would have kept watch and would not have let his house be broken into. Pilate then went back inside the palace, summoned Jesus and asked him, "Are you the king of the Jews?" For I did not speak of my own accord, but the Father who sent me commanded me what to say and how to say it. Going a little farther, he fell with his face to the ground and prayed, "My Father, if it is possible, may this cup be taken from me. So she came running to Simon Peter and the other disciple, the one Jesus loved, and said, "They have taken the Lord out of the tomb, and we don't know where they have put him!" So he sent two of his disciples, telling them, "Go into the city, and a man carrying a jar of water will meet you. I have made you known to them, and will continue to make you known in order that the love you have for me may be in them and that I myself may be in them." But about the resurrection of the dead--have you not read what God said to you, 'I am the God of Abraham, the God of Isaac, and the God of Jacob'? They offered him wine vinegar and said, "If you are the king of the Jews, save yourself." "Everything they do is done for men to see: They make their phylacteries wide and the tassels on their garments long; they love the place of honor at banquets and the most important seats in the synagogues; they love to be greeted in the marketplaces and to have men call them 'Rabbi.' They will dash you to the ground, you and the children within your walls. "But I say to all of you: In the future you will see the Son of Man sitting at the right hand of the Mighty One and coming on the clouds of heaven." Jesus said to them, "I tell you the truth, the tax collectors and the prostitutes are entering the kingdom of God ahead of you. But those who are considered worthy of taking part in that age and in the resurrection from the dead will neither marry nor be given in marriage, and they can no longer die; for they are like the angels. "Father, I want those you have given me to be with me where I am, and to see my glory, the glory you have given me because you loved me before the creation of the world. "Therefore I tell you that the kingdom of God will be taken away from you and given to a people who will produce its fruit. Be always on the watch, and pray that you may be able to escape all that is about to happen, and that you may be able to stand before the Son of Man." You aren't swayed by men, because you pay no attention to who they are; but you teach the way of God in accordance with the truth. When he was gone, Jesus said, "Now is the Son of Man glorified and God is glorified in him. This took place to fulfill what was spoken through the prophet: "Say to the Daughter of Zion, 'See, your king comes to you, gentle and riding on a donkey, on a colt, the foal of a donkey.'" They discussed it among themselves and said, "If we say, 'From heaven,' he will ask, 'Then why didn't you believe him?' They discussed it among themselves and said, "If we say, 'From heaven,' he will ask, 'Then why didn't you believe him?' And you say, 'If we had lived in the days of our forefathers, we would not have taken part with them in shedding the blood of the prophets.' "Righteous Father, though the world does not know you, I know you, and they know that you have sent me. They asked each other, "Were not our hearts burning within us while he talked with us on the road and opened the Scriptures to us?" All men will hate you because of me, but he who stands firm to the end will be saved. For I gave them the words you gave me and they accepted them. And I will do whatever you ask in my name, so that the Son may bring glory to the Father. Then he sent another servant to them; they struck this man on the head and treated him shamefully. When they brought the colt to Jesus and threw their cloaks over it, he sat on it. The master of that servant will come on a day when he does not expect him and at an hour he is not aware of. And so upon you will come all the righteous blood that has been shed on earth, from the blood of righteous Abel to the blood of Zechariah son of Berekiah, whom you murdered between the temple and the altar. Though the doors were locked, Jesus came and stood among them and said, "Peace be with you!" When Judas, who had betrayed him, saw that Jesus was condemned, he was seized with remorse and returned the thirty silver coins to the chief priests and the elders. Calling his disciples to him, Jesus said, "I tell you the truth, this poor widow has put more into the treasury than all the others. Then Peter remembered the word Jesus had spoken to him: "Before the rooster crows twice you will disown me three times." But when the chief priests and the teachers of the law saw the wonderful things he did and the children shouting in the temple area, "Hosanna to the Son of David," they were indignant. He will cut him to pieces and assign him a place with the hypocrites, where there will be weeping and gnashing of teeth. They looked for a way to arrest him, but they were afraid of the crowd because the people held that he was a prophet. You who are going to destroy the temple and build it in three days, come down from the cross and save yourself!" In the same way, on the outside you appear to people as righteous but on the inside you are full of hypocrisy and wickedness. There is a judge for the one who rejects me and does not accept my words; that very word which I spoke will condemn him at the last day. I tell you the truth, he will put him in charge of all his possessions. He said to them, "But now if you have a purse, take it, and also a bag; and if you don't have a sword, sell your cloak and buy one. Therefore go and make disciples of all nations, baptizing them in the name of the Father and of the Son and of the Holy Spirit, and teaching them to obey everything I have commanded you. They will treat you this way because of my name, for they do not know the One who sent me. "When the Counselor comes, whom I will send to you from the Father, the Spirit of truth who goes out from the Father, he will testify about me. Follow him to the house that he enters, and say to the owner of the house, 'The Teacher asks: Where is the guest room, where I may eat the Passover with my disciples?' If you loved me, you would be glad that I am going to the Father, for the Father is greater than I. I have told you now before it happens, so that when it does happen you will believe. And beginning with Moses and all the Prophets, he explained to them what was said in all the Scriptures concerning himself. On reaching the place, he said to them, "Pray that you will not fall into temptation." They discussed it among themselves and said, "If we say, 'From heaven,' he will ask, 'Why didn't you believe him?' As they led him away, they seized Simon from Cyrene, who was on his way in from the country, and put the cross on him and made him carry it behind Jesus. For I tell you, you will not see me again until you say, 'Blessed is he who comes in the name of the Lord.'" When Jesus saw his mother there, and the disciple whom he loved standing nearby, he said to his mother, "Dear woman, here is your son," and to the disciple, "Here is your mother." A jar of wine vinegar was there, so they soaked a sponge in it, put the sponge on a stalk of the hyssop plant, and lifted it to Jesus' lips. From then on, Pilate tried to set Jesus free, but the Jews kept shouting, "If you let this man go, you are no friend of Caesar. And what will be the sign that they are about to take place?" And when the centurion, who stood there in front of Jesus, heard his cry and saw how he died, he said, "Surely this man was the Son of God!" They will not leave one stone on another, because you did not recognize the time of God's coming to you." And what will be the sign that they are all about to be fulfilled?" "Tell us," they said, "when will this happen, and what will be the sign of your coming and of the end of the age?" Jesus knew that the Father had put all things under his power, and that he had come from God and was returning to God; so he got up from the meal, took off his outer clothing, and wrapped a towel around his waist. As Jesus was sitting on the Mount of Olives opposite the temple, Peter, James, John and Andrew asked him privately, "Tell us, when will these things happen? With this he went out again to the Jews and said, "I find no basis for a charge against him. The crowds that went ahead of him and those that followed shouted, "Hosanna to the Son of David!Blessed is he who comes in the name of the Lord!Hosanna in the highest!" So when the crowd had gathered, Pilate asked them, "Which one do you want me to release to you: Barabbas, or Jesus who is called Christ?" The angel said to the women, "Do not be afraid, for I know that you are looking for Jesus, who was crucified. He replied, "Go into the city to a certain man and tell him, 'The Teacher says: My appointed time is near. While they were still talking about this, Jesus himself stood among them and said to them, "Peace be with you." "Teacher," they said, "Moses told us that if a man dies without having children, his brother must marry the widow and have children for him. I have given them your word and the world has hated them, for they are not of the world any more than I am of the world. When Pilate heard this, he brought Jesus out and sat down on the judge's seat at a place known as the Stone Pavement (which in Aramaic is Gabbatha). These words you hear are not my own; they belong to the Father who sent me. Now about the dead rising--have you not read in the book of Moses, in the account of the bush, how God said to him, 'I am the God of Abraham, the God of Isaac, and the God of Jacob'? Then he took the cup, gave thanks and offered it to them, and they all drank from it. But it is your custom for me to release to you one prisoner at the time of the Passover. If anyone does not remain in me, he is like a branch that is thrown away and withers; such branches are picked up, thrown into the fire and burned. "Teacher," they said, "Moses wrote for us that if a man's brother dies and leaves a wife but no children, the man must marry the widow and have children for his brother. "Teacher," they said, "Moses wrote for us that if a man's brother dies and leaves a wife but no children, the man must marry the widow and have children for his brother. Then what was spoken by Jeremiah the prophet was fulfilled: "They took the thirty silver coins, the price set on him by the people of Israel, and they used them to buy the potter's field, as the Lord commanded me." A certain man from Cyrene, Simon, the father of Alexander and Rufus, was passing by on his way in from the country, and they forced him to carry the cross. They came to him and said, "Teacher, we know you are a man of integrity. While Pilate was sitting on the judge's seat, his wife sent him this message: "Don't have anything to do with that innocent man, for I have suffered a great deal today in a dream because of him." I am going to send you what my Father has promised; but stay in the city until you have been clothed with power from on high." When Jesus said, "I am he," they drew back and fell to the ground. He went on to tell the people this parable: "A man planted a vineyard, rented it to some farmers and went away for a long time. He has no hold on me, but the world must learn that I love the Father and that I do exactly what my Father has commanded me. These things happened so that the scripture would be fulfilled: "Not one of his bones will be broken," and, as another scripture says, "They will look on the one they have pierced." The crowd came up and asked Pilate to do for them what he usually did. This happened so that the words he had spoken would be fulfilled: "I have not lost one of those you gave me." Every day I was with you in the temple courts, and you did not lay a hand on me. Jesus entered the temple courts, and, while he was teaching, the chief priests and the elders of the people came to him. Each day Jesus was teaching at the temple, and each evening he went out to spend the night on the hill called the Mount of Olives, and all the people came early in the morning to hear him at the temple. See Footnote They arrived again in Jerusalem, and while Jesus was walking in the temple courts, the chief priests, the teachers of the law and the elders came to him. "When the Son of Man comes in his glory, and all the angels with him, he will sit on his throne in heavenly glory. These returned and reported it to the rest; but they did not believe them either. After the Lord Jesus had spoken to them, he was taken up into heaven and he sat at the right hand of God. Later they sent some of the Pharisees and Herodians to Jesus to catch him in his words. "Then the King will say to those on his right, 'Come, you who are blessed by my Father; take your inheritance, the kingdom prepared for you since the creation of the world. "I tell you," he replied, "if they keep quiet, the stones will cry out." You will be handed over to the local councils and flogged in the synagogues. "Now learn this lesson from the fig tree: As soon as its twigs get tender and its leaves come out, you know that summer is near. The chief priests and the whole Sanhedrin were looking for false evidence against Jesus so that they could put him to death. "Now learn this lesson from the fig tree: As soon as its twigs get tender and its leaves come out, you know that summer is near. In their fright the women bowed down with their faces to the ground, but the men said to them, "Why do you look for the living among the dead? You clean the outside of the cup and dish, but inside they are full of greed and self-indulgence. So the chief priests made plans to kill Lazarus as well, for on account of him many of the Jews were going over to Jesus and putting their faith in him. I tell you the truth, unless a kernel of wheat falls to the ground and dies, it remains only a single seed. The chief priests and the teachers of the law heard this and began looking for a way to kill him, for they feared him, because the whole crowd was amazed at his teaching. Haven't you read this scripture: "'The stone the builders rejected has become the capstone; the Lord has done this, and it is marvelous in our eyes'?" Then the chief priests and the elders of the people assembled in the palace of the high priest, whose name was Caiaphas, and they plotted to arrest Jesus in some sly way and kill him. He is not the God of the dead, but of the living, for to him all are alive." "Be careful, or your hearts will be weighed down with dissipation, drunkenness and the anxieties of life, and that day will close on you unexpectedly like a trap. You travel over land and sea to win a single convert, and when he becomes one, you make him twice as much a son of hell as you are. Now the crowd that was with him when he called Lazarus from the tomb and raised him from the dead continued to spread the word. One day as he was teaching the people in the temple courts and preaching the gospel, the chief priests and the teachers of the law, together with the elders, came up to him. He knows that he tells the truth, and he testifies so that you also may believe. Unless I go away, the Counselor will not come to you; but if I go, I will send him to you. The Jews insisted, "We have a law, and according to that law he must die, because he claimed to be the Son of God." Holy Father, protect them by the power of your name--the name you gave me--so that they may be one as we are one. While Jesus was in Bethany in the home of a man known as Simon the Leper, a woman came to him with an alabaster jar of very expensive perfume, which she poured on his head as he was reclining at the table. And I confer on you a kingdom, just as my Father conferred one on me, so that you may eat and drink at my table in my kingdom and sit on thrones, judging the twelve tribes of Israel. For in the days before the flood, people were eating and drinking, marrying and giving in marriage, up to the day Noah entered the ark; and they knew nothing about what would happen until the flood came and took them all away. When Jesus came out wearing the crown of thorns and the purple robe, Pilate said to them, "Here is the man!" Then Peter remembered the word the Lord had spoken to him: "Before the rooster crows today, you will disown me three times." Every day I was with you, teaching in the temple courts, and you did not arrest me. "So if anyone tells you, 'There he is, out in the desert,' do not go out; or, 'Here he is, in the inner rooms,' do not believe it. By now it was early morning, and to avoid ceremonial uncleanness the Jews did not enter the palace; they wanted to be able to eat the Passover. And surely I am with you always, to the very end of the age." "Put your sword back in its place," Jesus said to him, "for all who draw the sword will die by the sword. Jesus knew that the time had come for him to leave this world and go to the Father. Very early on the first day of the week, just after sunrise, they were on their way to the tomb and they asked each other, "Who will roll the stone away from the entrance of the tomb?" So as evening approached, Joseph of Arimathea, a prominent member of the Council, who was himself waiting for the kingdom of God, went boldly to Pilate and asked for Jesus' body. As it is, you do not belong to the world, but I have chosen you out of the world. Then he said to the tree, "May no one ever eat fruit from you again." After that, he poured water into a basin and began to wash his disciples' feet, drying them with the towel that was wrapped around him. I tell you, I will not drink of this fruit of the vine from now on until that day when I drink it anew with you in my Father's kingdom." When all the people who had gathered to witness this sight saw what took place, they beat their breasts and went away. Jesus answered him, "I tell you the truth, today you will be with me in paradise." Jesus answered, "It is the one to whom I will give this piece of bread when I have dipped it in the dish." Then the two told what had happened on the way, and how Jesus was recognized by them when he broke the bread. But one of his disciples, Judas Iscariot, who was later to betray him, objected, "Why wasn't this perfume sold and the money given to the poor? He will bring glory to me by taking from what is mine and making it known to you. And this gospel of the kingdom will be preached in the whole world as a testimony to all nations, and then the end will come. He took Peter and the two sons of Zebedee along with him, and he began to be sorrowful and troubled. And Judas went to the chief priests and the officers of the temple guard and discussed with them how he might betray Jesus. For many will come in my name, claiming, 'I am he,' and, 'The time is near.' Don't you believe that I am in the Father, and that the Father is in me? Then Jesus said to them, "How is it that they say the Christ is the Son of David? "When you see 'the abomination that causes desolation' standing where it does not belong--let the reader understand--then let those who are in Judea flee to the mountains. And he will send his angels and gather his elect from the four winds, from the ends of the earth to the ends of the heavens. Jesus looked directly at them and asked, "Then what is the meaning of that which is written: "'The stone the builders rejected has become the capstone '? But you know him, for he lives with you and will be in you. It's like a man going away: He leaves his house and puts his servants in charge, each with his assigned task, and tells the one at the door to keep watch. Jesus said to them, "The kings of the Gentiles lord it over them; and those who exercise authority over them call themselves Benefactors. Bending over, he saw the strips of linen lying by themselves, and he went away, wondering to himself what had happened. You will look for me, and just as I told the Jews, so I tell you now: Where I am going, you cannot come. When the Sabbath was over, Mary Magdalene, Mary the mother of James, and Salome bought spices so that they might go to anoint Jesus' body. Finally two came forward and declared, "This fellow said, 'I am able to destroy the temple of God and rebuild it in three days.'" After a little while, those standing there went up to Peter and said, "Surely you are one of them, for your accent gives you away." This happened that the scripture might be fulfilled which said, "They divided my garments among them and cast lots for my clothing." And now, Father, glorify me in your presence with the glory I had with you before the world began. Going a little farther, he fell to the ground and prayed that if possible the hour might pass from him. You will hear of wars and rumors of wars, but see to it that you are not alarmed. "Who then is the faithful and wise servant, whom the master has put in charge of the servants in his household to give them their food at the proper time? "Yes," replied Jesus, "have you never read, "'From the lips of children and infants you have ordained praise'?" So you also must be ready, because the Son of Man will come at an hour when you do not expect him. He did not say this because he cared about the poor but because he was a thief; as keeper of the money bag, he used to help himself to what was put into it. "He will reply, 'I tell you the truth, whatever you did not do for one of the least of these, you did not do for me.' Now the Feast of Unleavened Bread, called the Passover, was approaching, and the chief priests and the teachers of the law were looking for some way to get rid of Jesus, for they were afraid of the people. The Son of Man will go as it has been decreed, but woe to that man who betrays him." He withdrew about a stone's throw beyond them, knelt down and prayed, "Father, if you are willing, take this cup from me; yet not my will, but yours be done." The high priest said to him, "I charge you under oath by the living God: Tell us if you are the Christ, the Son of God." At that time they will see the Son of Man coming in a cloud with power and great glory. You also say, 'If anyone swears by the altar, it means nothing; but if anyone swears by the gift on it, he is bound by his oath.' They bound him and brought him first to Annas, who was the father-in-law of Caiaphas, the high priest that year. When Pilate saw that he was getting nowhere, but that instead an uproar was starting, he took water and washed his hands in front of the crowd. When he came near the place where the road goes down the Mount of Olives, the whole crowd of disciples began joyfully to praise God in loud voices for all the miracles they had seen: "Blessed is the king who comes in the name of the Lord!Peace in heaven and glory in the highest!" They answered as Jesus had told them to, and the people let them go. Because the Jews did not want the bodies left on the crosses during the Sabbath, they asked Pilate to have the legs broken and the bodies taken down. He said to them, "How is it then that David, speaking by the Spirit, calls him 'Lord'? All the nations will be gathered before him, and he will separate the people one from another as a shepherd separates the sheep from the goats. They like to walk around in flowing robes and love to be greeted in the marketplaces and have the most important seats in the synagogues and the places of honor at banquets. "And you will see the Son of Man sitting at the right hand of the Mighty One and coming on the clouds of heaven." See Footnote "Woe to you, teachers of the law and Pharisees, you hypocrites! When he was at the table with them, he took bread, gave thanks, broke it and began to give it to them. They were very sad and began to say to him one after the other, "Surely not I, Lord?" The crowd that was there and heard it said it had thundered; others said an angel had spoken to him. They brought the coin, and he asked them, "Whose portrait is this? They brought it to Jesus, threw their cloaks on the colt and put Jesus on it. They will deliver you to synagogues and prisons, and you will be brought before kings and governors, and all on account of my name. The days will come upon you when your enemies will build an embankment against you and encircle you and hem you in on every side. I pray also for those who will believe in me through their message, that all of them may be one, Father, just as you are in me and I am in you. "Woe to you, teachers of the law and Pharisees, you hypocrites! "Woe to you, teachers of the law and Pharisees, you hypocrites! "Woe to you, teachers of the law and Pharisees, you hypocrites! "Woe to you, teachers of the law and Pharisees, you hypocrites! "Woe to you, teachers of the law and Pharisees, you hypocrites! They will fall by the sword and will be taken as prisoners to all the nations. You say, 'If anyone swears by the temple, it means nothing; but if anyone swears by the gold of the temple, he is bound by his oath.' And you also must testify, for you have been with me from the beginning. When the chief priests and the Pharisees heard Jesus' parables, they knew he was talking about them. He bent over and looked in at the strips of linen lying there but did not go in. And being in anguish, he prayed more earnestly, and his sweat was like drops of blood falling to the ground. They like to walk around in flowing robes and be greeted in the marketplaces, and have the most important seats in the synagogues and the places of honor at banquets. The poor you will always have with you, and you can help them any time you want. So with you: Now is your time of grief, but I will see you again and you will rejoice, and no one will take away your joy. "At that time the kingdom of heaven will be like ten virgins who took their lamps and went out to meet the bridegroom. "But a time is coming, and has come, when you will be scattered, each to his own home. May they also be in us so that the world may believe that you have sent me. He said to them, "Why are you troubled, and why do doubts rise in your minds? He will not speak on his own; he will speak only what he hears, and he will tell you what is yet to come. You will be betrayed even by parents, brothers, relatives and friends, and they will put some of you to death. Every day I sat in the temple courts teaching, and you did not arrest me. They clothed him in a purple robe and went up to him again and again, saying, "Hail, king of the Jews!" I am not praying for the world, but for those you have given me, for they are yours. But when they came to Jesus and found that he was already dead, they did not break his legs. My prayer is not that you take them out of the world but that you protect them from the evil one. And as he taught them, he said, "Is it not written: "'My house will be called a house of prayer for all nations'? No, the Father himself loves you because you have loved me and have believed that I came from God. Go to the street corners and invite to the banquet anyone you find.' He overturned the tables of the money changers and the benches of those selling doves, and would not allow anyone to carry merchandise through the temple courts. Now the Passover and the Feast of Unleavened Bread were only two days away, and the chief priests and the teachers of the law were looking for some sly way to arrest Jesus and kill him. When he had led them out to the vicinity of Bethany, he lifted up his hands and blessed them. He went away a second time and prayed, "My Father, if it is not possible for this cup to be taken away unless I drink it, may your will be done." And he said to them, "I have eagerly desired to eat this Passover with you before I suffer. Pray that this will not take place in winter, because those will be days of distress unequaled from the beginning, when God created the world, until now--and never to be equaled again. They took Jesus to the high priest, and all the chief priests, elders and teachers of the law came together. "So when you see standing in the holy place 'the abomination that causes desolation,' spoken of through the prophet Daniel--let the reader understand-- then let those who are in Judea flee to the mountains. And do not call anyone on earth 'father,' for you have one Father, and he is in heaven. In the same way, after the supper he took the cup, saying, "This cup is the new covenant in my blood, which is poured out for you. Thomas said to him, "Lord, we don't know where you are going, so how can we know the way?" Then Jesus cried out, "When a man believes in me, he does not believe in me only, but in the one who sent me. Noticing that Jesus had given them a good answer, he asked him, "Of all the commandments, which is the most important?" "It is written," he said to them, "'My house will be a house of prayer'; but you have made it 'a den of robbers.'" You are like whitewashed tombs, which look beautiful on the outside but on the inside are full of dead men's bones and everything unclean. Then Jesus said to the crowds and to his disciples: "The teachers of the law and the Pharisees sit in Moses' seat. They came out of the tombs, and after Jesus' resurrection they went into the holy city and appeared to many people. It was Mary Magdalene, Joanna, Mary the mother of James, and the others with them who told this to the apostles. "This is my blood of the covenant, which is poured out for many," he said to them. But go, tell his disciples and Peter, 'He is going ahead of you into Galilee. For the time will come when you will say, 'Blessed are the barren women, the wombs that never bore and the breasts that never nursed!' Then Pilate asked him, "Don't you hear the testimony they are bringing against you?" If a man remains in me and I in him, he will bear much fruit; apart from me you can do nothing. Whoever has my commands and obeys them, he is the one who loves me. Here they crucified him, and with him two others--one on each side and Jesus in the middle. But when they had kindled a fire in the middle of the courtyard and had sat down together, Peter sat down with them. They said, "He saved others; let him save himself if he is the Christ of God, the Chosen One." This happened so that the words Jesus had spoken indicating the kind of death he was going to die would be fulfilled. As they were going out, they met a man from Cyrene, named Simon, and they forced him to carry the cross. Jesus went out as usual to the Mount of Olives, and his disciples followed him. Some of them you will kill and crucify; others you will flog in your synagogues and pursue from town to town. Going to Pilate, he asked for Jesus' body, and Pilate ordered that it be given to him. Joseph took the body, wrapped it in a clean linen cloth, and placed it in his own new tomb that he had cut out of the rock. "I tell you the truth," he said, "this poor widow has put in more than all the others. He will come and kill those tenants and give the vineyard to others." Now there was a man named Joseph, a member of the Council, a good and upright man, who had not consented to their decision and action. He will come and kill those tenants and give the vineyard to others. But the chief priests and the elders persuaded the crowd to ask for Barabbas and to have Jesus executed. He went to the first and said, 'Son, go and work today in the vineyard.' He said to them, "Go into all the world and preach the good news to all creation. "It is written," he said to them, "'My house will be called a house of prayer,' but you are making it a 'den of robbers.'" But this is to fulfill the scripture: 'He who shares my bread has lifted up his heel against me.' At harvest time he sent a servant to the tenants so they would give him some of the fruit of the vineyard. For he knew who was going to betray him, and that was why he said not every one was clean. After Jesus said this, he looked toward heaven and prayed: "Father, the time has come. With that, one of Jesus' companions reached for his sword, drew it out and struck the servant of the high priest, cutting off his ear. asked Pilate, knowing it was out of envy that the chief priests had handed Jesus over to him. "But when the king came in to see the guests, he noticed a man there who was not wearing wedding clothes. He rolled a big stone in front of the entrance to the tomb and went away. There was a violent earthquake, for an angel of the Lord came down from heaven and, going to the tomb, rolled back the stone and sat on it. Because it was the Jewish day of Preparation and since the tomb was nearby, they laid Jesus there. But you have neglected the more important matters of the law--justice, mercy and faithfulness. Then they looked for a way to arrest him because they knew he had spoken the parable against them. The blind and the lame came to him at the temple, and he healed them. When the servant girl saw him there, she said again to those standing around, "This fellow is one of them." But he replied, "Lord, I am ready to go with you to prison and to death." Then he began to call down curses on himself and he swore to them, "I don't know the man!" "Then he said to his servants, 'The wedding banquet is ready, but those I invited did not deserve to come. For he knew it was out of envy that they had handed Jesus over to him. And he left them and went out of the city to Bethany, where he spent the night. Believe me when I say that I am in the Father and the Father is in me; or at least believe on the evidence of the miracles themselves. Those who had arrested Jesus took him to Caiaphas, the high priest, where the teachers of the law and the elders had assembled. Jesus left the temple and was walking away when his disciples came up to him to call his attention to its buildings. The women who had come with Jesus from Galilee followed Joseph and saw the tomb and how his body was laid in it. I tell you the truth, wherever this gospel is preached throughout the world, what she has done will also be told, in memory of her." When they came back from the tomb, they told all these things to the Eleven and to all the others. "Therefore, when the owner of the vineyard comes, what will he do to those tenants?" There they found the Eleven and those with them, assembled together and saying, "It is true! When he rose from prayer and went back to the disciples, he found them asleep, exhausted from sorrow. Then Jesus told them, "You are going to have the light just a little while longer. But when he, the Spirit of truth, comes, he will guide you into all truth. Later, knowing that all was now completed, and so that the Scripture would be fulfilled, Jesus said, "I am thirsty." So Pilate came out to them and asked, "What charges are you bringing against this man?" The chief priests picked up the coins and said, "It is against the law to put this into the treasury, since it is blood money." One of the high priest's servants, a relative of the man whose ear Peter had cut off, challenged him, "Didn't I see you with him in the olive grove?" "You are right in saying that God is one and there is no other but him. So Pilate asked Jesus, "Are you the king of the Jews?Yes, it is as you say," Jesus replied. He sent his servants to those who had been invited to the banquet to tell them to come, but they refused to come. Jesus spoke to them again in parables, saying: "The kingdom of heaven is like a king who prepared a wedding banquet for his son. For I will give you words and wisdom that none of your adversaries will be able to resist or contradict. Did not the Christ have to suffer these things and then enter his glory?" "Am I leading a rebellion," said Jesus, "that you have come out with swords and clubs to capture me? You build tombs for the prophets and decorate the graves of the righteous. And they began to call out to him, "Hail, king of the Jews!" The first one married and died, and since he had no children, he left his wife to his brother. As he was leaving the temple, one of his disciples said to him, "Look, Teacher! I tell you the truth, no servant is greater than his master, nor is a messenger greater than the one who sent him. Early on the first day of the week, while it was still dark, Mary Magdalene went to the tomb and saw that the stone had been removed from the entrance. If God is glorified in him, God will glorify the Son in himself, and will glorify him at once. "Then you will be handed over to be persecuted and put to death, and you will be hated by all nations because of me. They will see the Son of Man coming on the clouds of the sky, with power and great glory. Well then, you should have put my money on deposit with the bankers, so that when I returned I would have received it back with interest. Instead, the greatest among you should be like the youngest, and the one who rules like the one who serves. Then he sent other servants to them, more than the first time, and the tenants treated them the same way. "'Take the talent from him and give it to the one who has the ten talents. Then let those who are in Judea flee to the mountains, let those in the city get out, and let those in the country not enter the city. For false Christs and false prophets will appear and perform great signs and miracles to deceive even the elect--if that were possible. As she wept, she bent over to look into the tomb and saw two angels in white, seated where Jesus' body had been, one at the head and the other at the foot. Philip said, "Lord, show us the Father and that will be enough for us." Jesus said, "Do not hold on to me, for I have not yet returned to the Father. Because this disciple was known to the high priest, he went with Jesus into the high priest's courtyard, but Peter had to wait outside at the door. "But you are not to be called 'Rabbi,' for you have only one Master and you are all brothers. "But in those days, following that distress, "'the sun will be darkened, and the moon will not give its light; the stars will fall from the sky, and the heavenly bodies will be shaken.' It was cold, and the servants and officials stood around a fire they had made to keep warm. "I don't know or understand what you're talking about," he said, and went out into the entryway. "At that time men will see the Son of Man coming in clouds with great power and glory. For false Christs and false prophets will appear and perform signs and miracles to deceive the elect--if that were possible. And if I go and prepare a place for you, I will come back and take you to be with me that you also may be where I am. Then he said to them, "My soul is overwhelmed with sorrow to the point of death. I will not speak with you much longer, for the prince of this world is coming. And with that he breathed on them and said, "Receive the Holy Spirit. As they approached the village to which they were going, Jesus acted as if he were going farther. But in the account of the bush, even Moses showed that the dead rise, for he calls the Lord 'the God of Abraham, and the God of Isaac, and the God of Jacob.' While he was still speaking a crowd came up, and the man who was called Judas, one of the Twelve, was leading them. He entered and sat down with the guards to see the outcome. But the hand of him who is going to betray me is with mine on the table. Now Peter was sitting out in the courtyard, and a servant girl came to him. Now the betrayer had arranged a signal with them: "The one I kiss is the man; arrest him and lead him away under guard." When he had finished praying, Jesus left with his disciples and crossed the Kidron Valley. Then Pilate announced to the chief priests and the crowd, "I find no basis for a charge against this man." Jesus sent Peter and John, saying, "Go and make preparations for us to eat the Passover." I tell you the truth, whoever accepts anyone I send accepts me; and whoever accepts me accepts the one who sent me." On account of me you will stand before governors and kings as witnesses to them. Many of the Jews read this sign, for the place where Jesus was crucified was near the city, and the sign was written in Aramaic, Latin and Greek. They were yours; you gave them to me and they have obeyed your word. Then he rented the vineyard to some farmers and went away on a journey. Because of the increase of wickedness, the love of most will grow cold, but he who stands firm to the end will be saved. "Then the king told the attendants, 'Tie him hand and foot, and throw him outside, into the darkness, where there will be weeping and gnashing of teeth.' Then he rented the vineyard to some farmers and went away on a journey. Early in the morning, all the chief priests and the elders of the people came to the decision to put Jesus to death. (They still did not understand from Scripture that Jesus had to rise from the dead.) As they were untying the colt, its owners asked them, "Why are you untying the colt?" I tell you the truth, wherever the gospel is preached throughout the world, what she has done will also be told, in memory of her." He replied, "As you enter the city, a man carrying a jar of water will meet you. "I tell you the truth, I will not drink again of the fruit of the vine until that day when I drink it anew in the kingdom of God." Now it was the day of Preparation, and the next day was to be a special Sabbath. Jesus turned and said to them, "Daughters of Jerusalem, do not weep for me; weep for yourselves and for your children. But they were afraid of the crowd; so they left him and went away. Yet they could not find any way to do it, because all the people hung on his words. A little later someone else saw him and said, "You also are one of them.Man, I am not!" Do you think I cannot call on my Father, and he will at once put at my disposal more than twelve legions of angels? The guards were so afraid of him that they shook and became like dead men. You did not choose me, but I chose you and appointed you to go and bear fruit--fruit that will last. They bound him, led him away and handed him over to Pilate, the governor. But if we say, 'From men,' all the people will stone us, because they are persuaded that John was a prophet." On the first day of the week, very early in the morning, the women took the spices they had prepared and went to the tomb. Then he took it down, wrapped it in linen cloth and placed it in a tomb cut in the rock, one in which no one had yet been laid. For I tell you, I will not eat it again until it finds fulfillment in the kingdom of God." Since Judas had charge of the money, some thought Jesus was telling him to buy what was needed for the Feast, or to give something to the poor. Therefore the one who handed me over to you is guilty of a greater sin." He came from the Judean town of Arimathea and he was waiting for the kingdom of God. In fact, for this reason I was born, and for this I came into the world, to testify to the truth. While Jesus was teaching in the temple courts, he asked, "How is it that the teachers of the law say that the Christ is the son of David? And he who swears by the temple swears by it and by the one who dwells in it. Some of his disciples were remarking about how the temple was adorned with beautiful stones and with gifts dedicated to God. They all asked, "Are you then the Son of God?" But the chief priests, the teachers of the law and the leaders among the people were trying to kill him. When Jesus entered Jerusalem, the whole city was stirred and asked, "Who is this?" "If he were not a criminal," they replied, "we would not have handed him over to you." While they were eating, Jesus took bread, gave thanks and broke it, and gave it to his disciples, saying, "Take it; this is my body." The evening meal was being served, and the devil had already prompted Judas Iscariot, son of Simon, to betray Jesus. Jesus replied, "The people of this age marry and are given in marriage. Then Peter remembered the word Jesus had spoken: "Before the rooster crows, you will disown me three times." Jesus replied, "You are in error because you do not know the Scriptures or the power of God. Jesus replied, "Are you not in error because you do not know the Scriptures or the power of God? While they were eating, Jesus took bread, gave thanks and broke it, and gave it to his disciples, saying, "Take and eat; this is my body." Afterward Jesus appeared in a different form to two of them while they were walking in the country. Let him come down now from the cross, and we will believe in him. Remember the words I spoke to you: 'No servant is greater than his master.' Then the Pharisees went out and laid plans to trap him in his words. For I was hungry and you gave me nothing to eat, I was thirsty and you gave me nothing to drink, I was a stranger and you did not invite me in, I needed clothes and you did not clothe me, I was sick and in prison and you did not look after me.' "My soul is overwhelmed with sorrow to the point of death," he said to them. "I have revealed you to those whom you gave me out of the world. I tell you the truth, you will weep and mourn while the world rejoices. But I tell you the truth: It is for your good that I am going away. It could have been sold for more than a year's wages and the money given to the poor." He who loves me will be loved by my Father, and I too will love him and show myself to him." Now then, at the resurrection, whose wife will she be of the seven, since all of them were married to her?" When Pilate heard this, he was even more afraid, and he went back inside the palace. On the other side there was an olive grove, and he and his disciples went into it. The other disciple, who was known to the high priest, came back, spoke to the girl on duty there and brought Peter in. For he says, "'The Lord said to my Lord: "Sit at my right hand until I put your enemies under your feet."' While the women were on their way, some of the guards went into the city and reported to the chief priests everything that had happened. But if we say, 'From men'--we are afraid of the people, for they all hold that John was a prophet." Let God rescue him now if he wants him, for he said, 'I am the Son of God.'" Carrying his own cross, he went out to the place of the Skull (which in Aramaic is called Golgotha). The words I say to you are not just my own. "But when the tenants saw the son, they said to each other, 'This is the heir. This was to fulfill the word of Isaiah the prophet: "Lord, who has believed our message and to whom has the arm of the Lord been revealed?" Above his head they placed the written charge against him: THIS IS JESUS, THE KING OF THE JEWS. And he who swears by heaven swears by God's throne and by the one who sits on it. The crowd spoke up, "We have heard from the Law that the Christ will remain forever, so how can you say, 'The Son of Man must be lifted up'? I have brought you glory on earth by completing the work you gave me to do. He will do even greater things than these, because I am going to the Father. One of the criminals who hung there hurled insults at him: "Aren't you the Christ? So the women hurried away from the tomb, afraid yet filled with joy, and ran to tell his disciples. Then the disciples went out and preached everywhere, and the Lord worked with them and confirmed his word by the signs that accompanied it. Nor are you to be called 'teacher,' for you have one Teacher, the Christ. While the Pharisees were gathered together, Jesus asked them, "What do you think about the Christ? Just say whatever is given you at the time, for it is not you speaking, but the Holy Spirit. Let this Christ, this King of Israel, come down now from the cross, that we may see and believe." "If you are the Christ, "they said, "tell us." "It was your people and your chief priests who handed you over to me. At that time if anyone says to you, 'Look, here is the Christ!' He will put the sheep on his right and the goats on his left. Say to the owner of the house he enters, 'The Teacher asks: Where is my guest room, where I may eat the Passover with my disciples?' At that time if anyone says to you, 'Look, here is the Christ!' He told them this parable: "Look at the fig tree and all the trees. Otherwise, his disciples may come and steal the body and tell the people that he has been raised from the dead. The soldiers therefore came and broke the legs of the first man who had been crucified with Jesus, and then those of the other. If you belonged to the world, it would love you as its own. Now we can see that you know all things and that you do not even need to have anyone ask you questions. But they urged him strongly, "Stay with us, for it is nearly evening; the day is almost over." "It is one of the Twelve," he replied, "one who dips bread into the bowl with me. The chief priests of the Jews protested to Pilate, "Do not write 'The King of the Jews,' but that this man claimed to be king of the Jews." They brought the donkey and the colt, placed their cloaks on them, and Jesus sat on them. "Therefore keep watch because you do not know when the owner of the house will come back--whether in the evening, or at midnight, or when the rooster crows, or at dawn. tell him, 'The Lord needs it and will send it back here shortly.'" Again the high priest asked him, "Are you the Christ, the Son of the Blessed One?" They came and told us that they had seen a vision of angels, who said he was alive. "Which of the two do you want me to release to you?" For many will come in my name, claiming, 'I am the Christ, 'and will deceive many. When the soldiers crucified Jesus, they took his clothes, dividing them into four shares, one for each of them, with the undergarment remaining. "As for the person who hears my words but does not keep them, I do not judge him. But suppose that servant is wicked and says to himself, 'My master is staying away a long time,' and he then begins to beat his fellow servants and to eat and drink with drunkards. But because of the Pharisees they would not confess their faith for fear they would be put out of the synagogue; for they loved praise from men more than praise from God. "But he replied, 'I tell you the truth, I don't know you.' "Then they will go away to eternal punishment, but the righteous to eternal life." He looked around at everything, but since it was already late, he went out to Bethany with the Twelve. "I tell you the truth," Jesus answered, "this very night, before the rooster crows, you will disown me three times." "This perfume could have been sold at a high price and the money given to the poor." But they did not believe the women, because their words seemed to them like nonsense. Therefore, he who swears by the altar swears by it and by everything on it. Even so, when you see all these things, you know that it is near, right at the door. When Jesus rose early on the first day of the week, he appeared first to Mary Magdalene, out of whom he had driven seven demons. "Do you want me to release to you the king of the Jews?" Do you want me to release 'the king of the Jews'?" For then there will be great distress, unequaled from the beginning of the world until now--and never to be equaled again. Then seizing him, they led him away and took him into the house of the high priest. The tombs broke open and the bodies of many holy people who had died were raised to life. Put your trust in the light while you have it, so that you may become sons of light." And what is more, it is the third day since all this took place. Jesus answered, "I tell you, Peter, before the rooster crows today, you will deny three times that you know me." If I had not come and spoken to them, they would not be guilty of sin. Then Jesus came to them and said, "All authority in heaven and on earth has been given to me. David himself declares in the Book of Psalms: "'The Lord said to my Lord: "Sit at my right hand until I make your enemies a footstool for your feet."' "Immediately after the distress of those days "'the sun will be darkened, and the moon will not give its light; the stars will fall from the sky, and the heavenly bodies will be shaken.' The soldiers led Jesus away into the palace (that is, the Praetorium) and called together the whole company of soldiers. There will be great distress in the land and wrath against this people. When they came to the place called the Skull, there they crucified him, along with the criminals--one on his right, the other on his left. So they took him and threw him out of the vineyard and killed him. So they took him and killed him, and threw him out of the vineyard. So they threw him out of the vineyard and killed him. The men who were guarding Jesus began mocking and beating him. When they sprout leaves, you can see for yourselves and know that summer is near. Then the governor's soldiers took Jesus into the Praetorium and gathered the whole company of soldiers around him. "'No,' they replied, 'there may not be enough for both us and you. Then "'they will say to the mountains, "Fall on us!" Only after Jesus was glorified did they realize that these things had been written about him and that they had done these things to him. When he learned from the centurion that it was so, he gave the body to Joseph. "What then will the owner of the vineyard do to them? And throw that worthless servant outside, into the darkness, where there will be weeping and gnashing of teeth.' That same day the Sadducees, who say there is no resurrection, came to him with a question. I do not give to you as the world gives. Then Jesus told him, "Because you have seen me, you have believed; blessed are those who have not seen and yet have believed." For as lightning that comes from the east is visible even in the west, so will be the coming of the Son of Man. Even so, when you see these things happening, you know that it is near, right at the door. As they entered the tomb, they saw a young man dressed in a white robe sitting on the right side, and they were alarmed. And when they had mocked him, they took off the purple robe and put his own clothes on him. The poor you will always have with you, but you will not always have me. The centurion, seeing what had happened, praised God and said, "Surely this was a righteous man." "At that time the sign of the Son of Man will appear in the sky, and all the nations of the earth will mourn. The Son of Man will go just as it is written about him. The Son of Man will go just as it is written about him. Then the high priest tore his clothes and said, "He has spoken blasphemy! Then the whole assembly rose and led him off to Pilate. He put a wall around it, dug a pit for the winepress and built a watchtower. Seeing a fig tree by the road, he went up to it but found nothing on it except leaves. When did we see you sick or in prison and go to visit you?' He started in Galilee and has come all the way here." "Then the father went to the other son and said the same thing. Seeing in the distance a fig tree in leaf, he went to find out if it had any fruit. At the place where Jesus was crucified, there was a garden, and in the garden a new tomb, in which no one had ever been laid. "Don't you fear God," he said, "since you are under the same sentence? After they had mocked him, they took off the robe and put his own clothes on him. Then he entered the temple area and began driving out those who were selling. You are already clean because of the word I have spoken to you. So he left them and went away once more and prayed the third time, saying the same thing. "The King will reply, 'I tell you the truth, whatever you did for one of the least of these brothers of mine, you did for me.' Again and again they struck him on the head with a staff and spit on him. So Judas came to the grove, guiding a detachment of soldiers and some officials from the chief priests and Pharisees. I tell you the truth, anyone who has faith in me will do what I have been doing. I came from the Father and entered the world; now I am leaving the world and going back to the Father." For I tell you I will not drink again of the fruit of the vine until the kingdom of God comes." So the servants went out into the streets and gathered all the people they could find, both good and bad, and the wedding hall was filled with guests. On the earth, nations will be in anguish and perplexity at the roaring and tossing of the sea. One of them, an expert in the law, tested him with this question: "Teacher, which is the greatest commandment in the Law?" The man who had received the five talents went at once and put his money to work and gained five more. Jesus found a young donkey and sat upon it, as it is written, "Do not be afraid, O Daughter of Zion; see, your king is coming, seated on a donkey's colt." "He was a prophet, powerful in word and deed before God and all the people. But he had Jesus flogged, and handed him over to be crucified. When Jesus said this, one of the officials nearby struck him in the face. Mary Magdalene and Mary the mother of Joses saw where he was laid. Early in the morning, as he was on his way back to the city, he was hungry. "I tell you the truth, this generation will certainly not pass away until all these things have happened. I tell you the truth, this generation will certainly not pass away until all these things have happened. I tell you the truth, this generation will certainly not pass away until all these things have happened. They will do such things because they have not known the Father or me. One of them, the disciple whom Jesus loved, was reclining next to him. With him was a large crowd armed with swords and clubs, sent from the chief priests and the elders of the people. When he was accused by the chief priests and the elders, he gave no answer. With him was a crowd armed with swords and clubs, sent from the chief priests, the teachers of the law, and the elders. "But before all this, they will lay hands on you and persecute you. They gave him a piece of broiled fish, and he took it and ate it in their presence. As Jesus was sitting on the Mount of Olives, the disciples came to him privately. He said this to show the kind of death he was going to die. It was Preparation Day, and the Sabbath was about to begin. They found the stone rolled away from the tomb, but when they entered, they did not find the body of the Lord Jesus. The disciples left, went into the city and found things just as Jesus had told them. Then the Sadducees, who say there is no resurrection, came to him with a question. Then, dipping the piece of bread, he gave it to Judas Iscariot, son of Simon. Even so, when you see these things happening, you know that the kingdom of God is near. "I tell you the truth, not one stone here will be left on another; every one will be thrown down." And this story has been widely circulated among the Jews to this very day. Jesus entered Jerusalem and went to the temple. Some of the Sadducees, who say there is no resurrection, came to Jesus with a question. When they heard that Jesus was alive and that she had seen him, they did not believe it. But the man who had received the one talent went off, dug a hole in the ground and hid his master's money. And they struck him in the face. So the disciples did as Jesus had directed them and prepared the Passover. That is why it has been called the Field of Blood to this day. For I was hungry and you gave me something to eat, I was thirsty and you gave me something to drink, I was a stranger and you invited me in, I needed clothes and you clothed me, I was sick and you looked after me, I was in prison and you came to visit me.' Then the men stepped forward, seized Jesus and arrested him. There he sat with the guards and warmed himself at the fire. Jesus replied: "'Love the Lord your God with all your heart and with all your soul and with all your mind.' Then Jesus went with his disciples to a place called Gethsemane, and he said to them, "Sit here while I go over there and pray." At harvest time he sent a servant to the tenants to collect from them some of the fruit of the vineyard. But they rested on the Sabbath in obedience to the commandment. For you granted him authority over all people that he might give eternal life to all those you have given him. Jesus replied, "The hour has come for the Son of Man to be glorified. Two men will be in the field; one will be taken and the other left. He came to Simon Peter, who said to him, "Lord, are you going to wash my feet?" As soon as the chief priests and their officials saw him, they shouted, "Crucify! First clean the inside of the cup and dish, and then the outside also will be clean. The bridegroom was a long time in coming, and they all became drowsy and fell asleep. Some of the Pharisees in the crowd said to Jesus, "Teacher, rebuke your disciples!" And when you stand praying, if you hold anything against anyone, forgive him, so that your Father in heaven may forgive you your sins." 'Master,' he said, 'I knew that you are a hard man, harvesting where you have not sown and gathering where you have not scattered seed. Simon Peter motioned to this disciple and said, "Ask him which one he means." The next day the great crowd that had come for the Feast heard that Jesus was on his way to Jerusalem. Jesus replied, "The one who has dipped his hand into the bowl with me will betray me. Come, let's kill him, and the inheritance will be ours.' Then Jesus' disciples said, "Now you are speaking clearly and without figures of speech. So Joseph bought some linen cloth, took down the body, wrapped it in the linen, and placed it in a tomb cut out of rock. A week later his disciples were in the house again, and Thomas was with them. "What shall I do, then, with the one you call the king of the Jews?" The man who saw it has given testimony, and his testimony is true. At daybreak the council of the elders of the people, both the chief priests and teachers of the law, met together, and Jesus was led before them. On reaching Jerusalem, Jesus entered the temple area and began driving out those who were buying and selling there. They went to the tomb early this morning but didn't find his body. Then the detachment of soldiers with its commander and the Jewish officials arrested Jesus. Having loved his own who were in the world, he now showed them the full extent of his love. But I, when I am lifted up from the earth, will draw all men to myself." With Pilate's permission, he came and took the body away. They spit on him, and took the staff and struck him on the head again and again. A woman giving birth to a child has pain because her time has come; but when her baby is born she forgets the anguish because of her joy that a child is born into the world. He consented, and watched for an opportunity to hand Jesus over to them when no crowd was present. "If the world hates you, keep in mind that it hated me first. Jesus entered the temple area and drove out all who were buying and selling there. "I tell you the truth," Jesus answered, "today--yes, tonight--before the rooster crows twice you yourself will disown me three times." 'Let's kill him, and the inheritance will be ours.' Two women will be grinding with a hand mill; one will be taken and the other left. He overturned the tables of the money changers and the benches of those selling doves. The disciples went and did as Jesus had instructed them. And the gospel must first be preached to all nations. After the Sabbath, at dawn on the first day of the week, Mary Magdalene and the other Mary went to look at the tomb. "You are looking for Jesus the Nazarene, who was crucified. "But not during the Feast," they said, "or there may be a riot among the people." And he touched the man's ear and healed him. You will always have the poor among you, but you will not always have me." They were saddened, and one by one they said to him, "Surely not I?" Whenever you are arrested and brought to trial, do not worry beforehand about what to say. Before long, the world will not see me anymore, but you will see me. Instead, one of the soldiers pierced Jesus' side with a spear, bringing a sudden flow of blood and water. While all the people were listening, Jesus said to his disciples, "Beware of the teachers of the law. Now then, at the resurrection whose wife will she be, since the seven were married to her?" Then Simon Peter, who was behind him, arrived and went into the tomb. They knew with certainty that I came from you, and they believed that you sent me. The men seized Jesus and arrested him. I have told you this, so that when the time comes you will remember that I warned you. At that time many will turn away from the faith and will betray and hate each other, and many false prophets will appear and deceive many people. Jesus did many other miraculous signs in the presence of his disciples, which are not recorded in this book. As he taught, Jesus said, "Watch out for the teachers of the law. But they insisted, "He stirs up the people all over Judea by his teaching. So the soldiers took the money and did as they were instructed. Whose son is he?The son of David," they replied. Then Simon Peter, who had a sword, drew it and struck the high priest's servant, cutting off his right ear. "There will be signs in the sun, moon and stars. Then the Father will give you whatever you ask in my name. You know the way to the place where I am going." But Jesus made no reply, not even to a single charge--to the great amazement of the governor. Therefore I tell you, whatever you ask for in prayer, believe that you have received it, and it will be yours. The disciples said, "See, Lord, here are two swords.That is enough," he replied. As they talked and discussed these things with each other, Jesus himself came up and walked along with them; but they were kept from recognizing him. If those days had not been cut short, no one would survive, but for the sake of the elect those days will be shortened. For I did not come to judge the world, but to save it. The next day, the one after Preparation Day, the chief priests and the Pharisees went to Pilate. In the same way the chief priests and the teachers of the law mocked him among themselves. "And who gave you authority to do this?" Come and see the place where he lay. The man who walks in the dark does not know where he is going. The man who loves his life will lose it, while the man who hates his life in this world will keep it for eternal life. When he reached it, he found nothing but leaves, because it was not the season for figs. They are not of the world, even as I am not of it. The virgins who were ready went in with him to the wedding banquet. They sent their disciples to him along with the Herodians. He saw the strips of linen lying there, as well as the burial cloth that had been around Jesus' head. But Peter followed him at a distance, right up to the courtyard of the high priest. Go and tell my brothers to go to Galilee; there they will see me." You may ask me for anything in my name, and I will do it. The chief priests and the teachers of the law were standing there, vehemently accusing him. When he learned that Jesus was under Herod's jurisdiction, he sent him to Herod, who was also in Jerusalem at that time. But if we say, 'From men'...." (They feared the people, for everyone held that John really was a prophet.) They brought Jesus to the place called Golgotha (which means The Place of the Skull). But how then would the Scriptures be fulfilled that say it must happen in this way?" Summoning the centurion, he asked him if Jesus had already died. In the same way the chief priests, the teachers of the law and the elders mocked him. It was now about the sixth hour, and darkness came over the whole land until the ninth hour, for the sun stopped shining. Then some stood up and gave this false testimony against him: "We heard him say, 'I will destroy this man-made temple and in three days will build another, not made by man.'" Pilate had a notice prepared and fastened to the cross. "They also will answer, 'Lord, when did we see you hungry or thirsty or a stranger or needing clothes or sick or in prison, and did not help you?' They went and found a colt outside in the street, tied at a doorway. At that moment the curtain of the temple was torn in two from top to bottom. And the second is like it: 'Love your neighbor as yourself.' He had Jesus flogged, and handed him over to be crucified. "But while they were on their way to buy the oil, the bridegroom arrived. Now Joseph was a disciple of Jesus, but secretly because he feared the Jews. Near the cross of Jesus stood his mother, his mother's sister, Mary the wife of Clopas, and Mary Magdalene. Then he said to them: "Nation will rise against nation, and kingdom against kingdom. Once more he went away and prayed the same thing. For the third time he spoke to them: "Why? The Lord has risen and has appeared to Simon." So they went and made the tomb secure by putting a seal on the stone and posting the guard. Now is the time for judgment on this world; now the prince of this world will be driven out. When you hear of wars and rumors of wars, do not be alarmed. When you hear of wars and revolutions, do not be frightened. All the people answered, "Let his blood be on us and on our children!" And they began to accuse him, saying, "We have found this man subverting our nation.