I tell you the truth, wherever this gospel is preached throughout the world, what she has done will also be told, in memory of her." I tell you the truth, wherever the gospel is preached throughout the world, what she has done will also be told, in memory of her." But one of his disciples, Judas Iscariot, who was later to betray him, objected, "Why wasn't this perfume sold and the money given to the poor? He did not say this because he cared about the poor but because he was a thief; as keeper of the money bag, he used to help himself to what was put into it. "This perfume could have been sold at a high price and the money given to the poor." While Jesus was in Bethany in the home of a man known as Simon the Leper, a woman came to him with an alabaster jar of very expensive perfume, which she poured on his head as he was reclining at the table. It could have been sold for more than a year's wages and the money given to the poor." Then Mary took about a pint of pure nard, an expensive perfume; she poured it on Jesus' feet and wiped his feet with her hair. Aware of this, Jesus said to them, "Why are you bothering this woman? "It was intended that she should save this perfume for the day of my burial.
So the chief priests made plans to kill Lazarus as well, for on account of him many of the Jews were going over to Jesus and putting their faith in him. Meanwhile a large crowd of Jews found out that Jesus was there and came, not only because of him but also to see Lazarus, whom he had raised from the dead.
The next day the great crowd that had come for the Feast heard that Jesus was on his way to Jerusalem. Blessed is he who comes in the name of the Lord!Blessed is the King of Israel!" They took palm branches and went out to meet him, shouting, "Hosanna!
As he approached Bethphage and Bethany at the hill called the Mount of Olives, he sent two of his disciples, saying to them, "Go to the village ahead of you, and as you enter it, you will find a colt tied there, which no one has ever ridden. As they approached Jerusalem and came to Bethphage and Bethany at the Mount of Olives, Jesus sent two of his disciples, saying to them, "Go to the village ahead of you, and just as you enter it, you will find a colt tied there, which no one has ever ridden. This took place to fulfill what was spoken through the prophet: "Say to the Daughter of Zion, 'See, your king comes to you, gentle and riding on a donkey, on a colt, the foal of a donkey.'" As they approached Jerusalem and came to Bethphage on the Mount of Olives, Jesus sent two disciples, saying to them, "Go to the village ahead of you, and at once you will find a donkey tied there, with her colt by her. Jesus found a young donkey and sat upon it, as it is written, "Do not be afraid, O Daughter of Zion; see, your king is coming, seated on a donkey's colt." If anyone says anything to you, tell him that the Lord needs them, and he will send them right away." Those who were sent ahead went and found it just as he had told them. When they brought the colt to Jesus and threw their cloaks over it, he sat on it. They brought it to Jesus, threw their cloaks on the colt and put Jesus on it. The disciples went and did as Jesus had instructed them.
As he went along, people spread their cloaks on the road. When he came near the place where the road goes down the Mount of Olives, the whole crowd of disciples began joyfully to praise God in loud voices for all the miracles they had seen: "Blessed is the king who comes in the name of the Lord!Peace in heaven and glory in the highest!" A very large crowd spread their cloaks on the road, while others cut branches from the trees and spread them on the road. The crowds that went ahead of him and those that followed shouted, "Hosanna to the Son of David!Blessed is he who comes in the name of the Lord!Hosanna in the highest!" "Blessed is the coming kingdom of our father David!Hosanna in the highest!" Blessed is he who comes in the name of the Lord!" Some of the Pharisees in the crowd said to Jesus, "Teacher, rebuke your disciples!" "I tell you," he replied, "if they keep quiet, the stones will cry out." Many people spread their cloaks on the road, while others spread branches they had cut in the fields. Those who went ahead and those who followed shouted, "Hosanna!
They will not leave one stone on another, because you did not recognize the time of God's coming to you." They will dash you to the ground, you and the children within your walls. The days will come upon you when your enemies will build an embankment against you and encircle you and hem you in on every side. As he approached Jerusalem and saw the city, he wept over it and said, "If you, even you, had only known on this day what would bring you peace--but now it is hidden from your eyes.
Now the crowd that was with him when he called Lazarus from the tomb and raised him from the dead continued to spread the word. Many people, because they had heard that he had given this miraculous sign, went out to meet him. The crowds answered, "This is Jesus, the prophet from Nazareth in Galilee." When Jesus entered Jerusalem, the whole city was stirred and asked, "Who is this?" So the Pharisees said to one another, "See, this is getting us nowhere. Look how the whole world has gone after him!"
He looked around at everything, but since it was already late, he went out to Bethany with the Twelve. Jesus entered Jerusalem and went to the temple. And he left them and went out of the city to Bethany, where he spent the night.
When he reached it, he found nothing but leaves, because it was not the season for figs. Seeing a fig tree by the road, he went up to it but found nothing on it except leaves. Seeing in the distance a fig tree in leaf, he went to find out if it had any fruit. Early in the morning, as he was on his way back to the city, he was hungry. Then he said to the tree, "May no one ever eat fruit from you again." The next day as they were leaving Bethany, Jesus was hungry. And his disciples heard him say it.
He overturned the tables of the money changers and the benches of those selling doves, and would not allow anyone to carry merchandise through the temple courts. He overturned the tables of the money changers and the benches of those selling doves. And as he taught them, he said, "Is it not written: "'My house will be called a house of prayer for all nations'? Then he entered the temple area and began driving out those who were selling. "It is written," he said to them, "'My house will be a house of prayer'; but you have made it 'a den of robbers.'" "It is written," he said to them, "'My house will be called a house of prayer,' but you are making it a 'den of robbers.'" On reaching Jerusalem, Jesus entered the temple area and began driving out those who were buying and selling there. Jesus entered the temple area and drove out all who were buying and selling there. But you have made it 'a den of robbers.'"
Yet they could not find any way to do it, because all the people hung on his words. But the chief priests, the teachers of the law and the leaders among the people were trying to kill him. Every day he was teaching at the temple. The chief priests and the teachers of the law heard this and began looking for a way to kill him, for they feared him, because the whole crowd was amazed at his teaching.
But when the chief priests and the teachers of the law saw the wonderful things he did and the children shouting in the temple area, "Hosanna to the Son of David," they were indignant. "Yes," replied Jesus, "have you never read, "'From the lips of children and infants you have ordained praise'?" The blind and the lame came to him at the temple, and he healed them. "Do you hear what these children are saying?" they asked him.
When evening came, they went out of the city.
Each day Jesus was teaching at the temple, and each evening he went out to spend the night on the hill called the Mount of Olives, and all the people came early in the morning to hear him at the temple.
"I tell you the truth, if anyone says to this mountain, 'Go, throw yourself into the sea,' and does not doubt in his heart but believes that what he says will happen, it will be done for him. Jesus replied, "I tell you the truth, if you have faith and do not doubt, not only can you do what was done to the fig tree, but also you can say to this mountain, 'Go, throw yourself into the sea,' and it will be done. And when you stand praying, if you hold anything against anyone, forgive him, so that your Father in heaven may forgive you your sins." In the morning, as they went along, they saw the fig tree withered from the roots. The fig tree you cursed has withered!" Therefore I tell you, whatever you ask for in prayer, believe that you have received it, and it will be yours. See Footnote If you believe, you will receive whatever you ask for in prayer." When the disciples saw this, they were amazed. "How did the fig tree wither so quickly?"
They discussed it among themselves and said, "If we say, 'From heaven,' he will ask, 'Why didn't you believe him?' They discussed it among themselves and said, "If we say, 'From heaven,' he will ask, 'Then why didn't you believe him?' They discussed it among themselves and said, "If we say, 'From heaven,' he will ask, 'Then why didn't you believe him?' But if we say, 'From men,' all the people will stone us, because they are persuaded that John was a prophet." "Tell us by what authority you are doing these things," they said. Jesus said, "Neither will I tell you by what authority I am doing these things." Jesus said, "Neither will I tell you by what authority I am doing these things." Answer me, and I will tell you by what authority I am doing these things. Jesus replied, "I will ask you one question. They arrived again in Jerusalem, and while Jesus was walking in the temple courts, the chief priests, the teachers of the law and the elders came to him.
"Which of the two did what his father wanted?The first," they answered. And even after you saw this, you did not repent and believe him. For John came to you to show you the way of righteousness, and you did not believe him, but the tax collectors and the prostitutes did. "'I will not,' he answered, but later he changed his mind and went. He went to the first and said, 'Son, go and work today in the vineyard.' Jesus said to them, "I tell you the truth, the tax collectors and the prostitutes are entering the kingdom of God ahead of you. "Then the father went to the other son and said the same thing. He answered, 'I will, sir,' but he did not go. "What do you think? There was a man who had two sons.
He will come and kill those tenants and give the vineyard to others." At harvest time he sent a servant to the tenants so they would give him some of the fruit of the vineyard. "He will bring those wretches to a wretched end," they replied, "and he will rent the vineyard to other tenants, who will give him his share of the crop at harvest time." Then he sent another servant to them; they struck this man on the head and treated him shamefully. He will come and kill those tenants and give the vineyard to others. Then he sent other servants to them, more than the first time, and the tenants treated them the same way. He went on to tell the people this parable: "A man planted a vineyard, rented it to some farmers and went away for a long time. Then he rented the vineyard to some farmers and went away on a journey. When the harvest time approached, he sent his servants to the tenants to collect his fruit. Then he rented the vineyard to some farmers and went away on a journey.
Everyone who falls on that stone will be broken to pieces, but he on whom it falls will be crushed." Haven't you read this scripture: "'The stone the builders rejected has become the capstone; the Lord has done this, and it is marvelous in our eyes'?" Jesus said to them, "Have you never read in the Scriptures: "'The stone the builders rejected has become the capstone; the Lord has done this, and it is marvelous in our eyes'? "Therefore I tell you that the kingdom of God will be taken away from you and given to a people who will produce its fruit. Jesus looked directly at them and asked, "Then what is the meaning of that which is written: "'The stone the builders rejected has become the capstone '? He who falls on this stone will be broken to pieces, but he on whom it falls will be crushed."
Then they looked for a way to arrest him because they knew he had spoken the parable against them. But they were afraid of the crowd; so they left him and went away. They looked for a way to arrest him, but they were afraid of the crowd because the people held that he was a prophet. When the chief priests and the Pharisees heard Jesus' parables, they knew he was talking about them. The teachers of the law and the chief priests looked for a way to arrest him immediately, because they knew he had spoken this parable against them. But they were afraid of the people.
"Then he said to his servants, 'The wedding banquet is ready, but those I invited did not deserve to come. "But when the king came in to see the guests, he noticed a man there who was not wearing wedding clothes. Jesus spoke to them again in parables, saying: "The kingdom of heaven is like a king who prepared a wedding banquet for his son. He sent his servants to those who had been invited to the banquet to tell them to come, but they refused to come. Go to the street corners and invite to the banquet anyone you find.' So the servants went out into the streets and gathered all the people they could find, both good and bad, and the wedding hall was filled with guests. "Then the king told the attendants, 'Tie him hand and foot, and throw him outside, into the darkness, where there will be weeping and gnashing of teeth.' The rest seized his servants, mistreated them and killed them. Come to the wedding banquet.' "But they paid no attention and went off--one to his field, another to his business.
They hoped to catch Jesus in something he said so that they might hand him over to the power and authority of the governor. Later they sent some of the Pharisees and Herodians to Jesus to catch him in his words. You aren't swayed by men, because you pay no attention to who they are; but you teach the way of God in accordance with the truth. So the spies questioned him: "Teacher, we know that you speak and teach what is right, and that you do not show partiality but teach the way of God in accordance with the truth. He said to them, "Then give to Caesar what is Caesar's, and to God what is God's." Then he said to them, "Give to Caesar what is Caesar's, and to God what is God's." They brought the coin, and he asked them, "Whose portrait is this? Then Jesus said to them, "Give to Caesar what is Caesar's and to God what is God's." They came to him and said, "Teacher, we know you are a man of integrity. They brought him a denarius, and he asked them, "Whose portrait is this?
Now about the dead rising--have you not read in the book of Moses, in the account of the bush, how God said to him, 'I am the God of Abraham, the God of Isaac, and the God of Jacob'? Now then, at the resurrection whose wife will she be, since the seven were married to her?" Some of the Sadducees, who say there is no resurrection, came to Jesus with a question. At the resurrection whose wife will she be, since the seven were married to her?" The second and then the third married her, and in the same way the seven died, leaving no children. In fact, none of the seven left any children. Now then, at the resurrection, whose wife will she be of the seven, since all of them were married to her?" That same day the Sadducees, who say there is no resurrection, came to him with a question. When the crowds heard this, they were astonished at his teaching. Then the Sadducees, who say there is no resurrection, came to him with a question.
All the Law and the Prophets hang on these two commandments." And the second is like it: 'Love your neighbor as yourself.' "The most important one," answered Jesus, "is this: 'Hear, O Israel, the Lord our God, the Lord is one. This is the first and greatest commandment. Noticing that Jesus had given them a good answer, he asked him, "Of all the commandments, which is the most important?" One of them, an expert in the law, tested him with this question: "Teacher, which is the greatest commandment in the Law?" Love the Lord your God with all your heart and with all your soul and with all your mind and with all your strength.' Jesus replied: "'Love the Lord your God with all your heart and with all your soul and with all your mind.' One of the teachers of the law came and heard them debating. When Jesus saw that he had answered wisely, he said to him, "You are not far from the kingdom of God."
Then Jesus said to them, "How is it that they say the Christ is the Son of David? For he says, "'The Lord said to my Lord: "Sit at my right hand until I put your enemies under your feet."' While Jesus was teaching in the temple courts, he asked, "How is it that the teachers of the law say that the Christ is the son of David? He said to them, "How is it then that David, speaking by the Spirit, calls him 'Lord'? If then David calls him 'Lord,' how can he be his son?" Whose son is he?The son of David," they replied. The large crowd listened to him with delight. David himself declares in the Book of Psalms: "'The Lord said to my Lord: "Sit at my right hand until I make your enemies a footstool for your feet."' David himself, speaking by the Holy Spirit, declared: "'The Lord said to my Lord: "Sit at my right hand until I put your enemies under your feet."' David calls him 'Lord.'
They like to walk around in flowing robes and be greeted in the marketplaces, and have the most important seats in the synagogues and the places of honor at banquets. They like to walk around in flowing robes and love to be greeted in the marketplaces and have the most important seats in the synagogues and the places of honor at banquets. "Everything they do is done for men to see: They make their phylacteries wide and the tassels on their garments long; they love the place of honor at banquets and the most important seats in the synagogues; they love to be greeted in the marketplaces and to have men call them 'Rabbi.' Nor are you to be called 'teacher,' for you have one Teacher, the Christ. "But you are not to be called 'Rabbi,' for you have only one Master and you are all brothers. For whoever exalts himself will be humbled, and whoever humbles himself will be exalted. Then Jesus said to the crowds and to his disciples: "The teachers of the law and the Pharisees sit in Moses' seat. And do not call anyone on earth 'father,' for you have one Father, and he is in heaven. The greatest among you will be your servant. As he taught, Jesus said, "Watch out for the teachers of the law.
I tell you the truth, all this will come upon this generation. And so upon you will come all the righteous blood that has been shed on earth, from the blood of righteous Abel to the blood of Zechariah son of Berekiah, whom you murdered between the temple and the altar. You are like whitewashed tombs, which look beautiful on the outside but on the inside are full of dead men's bones and everything unclean. In the same way, on the outside you appear to people as righteous but on the inside you are full of hypocrisy and wickedness. "Woe to you, teachers of the law and Pharisees, you hypocrites! You build tombs for the prophets and decorate the graves of the righteous. And you say, 'If we had lived in the days of our forefathers, we would not have taken part with them in shedding the blood of the prophets.' So you testify against yourselves that you are the descendants of those who murdered the prophets. You shut the kingdom of heaven in men's faces. "Woe to you, teachers of the law and Pharisees, you hypocrites!
For I tell you, you will not see me again until you say, 'Blessed is he who comes in the name of the Lord.'" Look, your house is left to you desolate. "O Jerusalem, Jerusalem, you who kill the prophets and stone those sent to you, how often I have longed to gather your children together, as a hen gathers her chicks under her wings, but you were not willing.
"I tell you the truth," he said, "this poor widow has put in more than all the others. They all gave out of their wealth; but she, out of her poverty, put in everything--all she had to live on." He also saw a poor widow put in two very small copper coins. All these people gave their gifts out of their wealth; but she out of her poverty put in all she had to live on." As he looked up, Jesus saw the rich putting their gifts into the temple treasury. But a poor widow came and put in two very small copper coins, worth only a fraction of a penny. Calling his disciples to him, Jesus said, "I tell you the truth, this poor widow has put more into the treasury than all the others. Jesus sat down opposite the place where the offerings were put and watched the crowd putting their money into the temple treasury. Many rich people threw in large amounts.
But Jesus said, "As for what you see here, the time will come when not one stone will be left on another; every one of them will be thrown down." Jesus left the temple and was walking away when his disciples came up to him to call his attention to its buildings. "I tell you the truth, not one stone here will be left on another; every one will be thrown down." As he was leaving the temple, one of his disciples said to him, "Look, Teacher! Some of his disciples were remarking about how the temple was adorned with beautiful stones and with gifts dedicated to God. "Do you see all these great buildings?" "Not one stone here will be left on another; every one will be thrown down." What magnificent buildings!" "Do you see all these things?" What massive stones!
And what will be the sign that they are about to take place?" And what will be the sign that they are all about to be fulfilled?" "Tell us," they said, "when will this happen, and what will be the sign of your coming and of the end of the age?" As Jesus was sitting on the Mount of Olives opposite the temple, Peter, James, John and Andrew asked him privately, "Tell us, when will these things happen? As Jesus was sitting on the Mount of Olives, the disciples came to him privately. "Teacher," they asked, "when will these things happen?
He replied: "Watch out that you are not deceived. For many will come in my name, claiming, 'I am he,' and, 'The time is near.' Many will come in my name, claiming, 'I am he,' and will deceive many. Jesus said to them: "Watch out that no one deceives you. For many will come in my name, claiming, 'I am the Christ, 'and will deceive many. Do not follow them. Jesus answered: "Watch out that no one deceives you.
You will be betrayed even by parents, brothers, relatives and friends, and they will put some of you to death. These things must happen first, but the end will not come right away." They will deliver you to synagogues and prisons, and you will be brought before kings and governors, and all on account of my name. For I will give you words and wisdom that none of your adversaries will be able to resist or contradict. Because of the increase of wickedness, the love of most will grow cold, but he who stands firm to the end will be saved. "Then you will be handed over to be persecuted and put to death, and you will be hated by all nations because of me. You will hear of wars and rumors of wars, but see to it that you are not alarmed. All men will hate you because of me, but he who stands firm to the end will be saved. Whenever you are arrested and brought to trial, do not worry beforehand about what to say. On account of me you will stand before governors and kings as witnesses to them.
Jerusalem will be trampled on by the Gentiles until the times of the Gentiles are fulfilled. They will fall by the sword and will be taken as prisoners to all the nations. There will be great distress in the land and wrath against this people. For this is the time of punishment in fulfillment of all that has been written. Pray that this will not take place in winter, because those will be days of distress unequaled from the beginning, when God created the world, until now--and never to be equaled again. Pray that your flight will not take place in winter or on the Sabbath. For then there will be great distress, unequaled from the beginning of the world until now--and never to be equaled again. If those days had not been cut short, no one would survive, but for the sake of the elect those days will be shortened. "So when you see standing in the holy place 'the abomination that causes desolation,' spoken of through the prophet Daniel--let the reader understand-- then let those who are in Judea flee to the mountains. "When you see 'the abomination that causes desolation' standing where it does not belong--let the reader understand--then let those who are in Judea flee to the mountains.
"So if anyone tells you, 'There he is, out in the desert,' do not go out; or, 'Here he is, in the inner rooms,' do not believe it. At that time if anyone says to you, 'Look, here is the Christ!' At that time if anyone says to you, 'Look, here is the Christ!' For as lightning that comes from the east is visible even in the west, so will be the coming of the Son of Man. See, I have told you ahead of time. or, 'Look, there he is!' For false Christs and false prophets will appear and perform signs and miracles to deceive the elect--if that were possible. So be on your guard; I have told you everything ahead of time. or, 'There he is!' For false Christs and false prophets will appear and perform great signs and miracles to deceive even the elect--if that were possible.
Wherever there is a carcass, there the vultures will gather.
At that time they will see the Son of Man coming in a cloud with power and great glory. Men will faint from terror, apprehensive of what is coming on the world, for the heavenly bodies will be shaken. On the earth, nations will be in anguish and perplexity at the roaring and tossing of the sea. "There will be signs in the sun, moon and stars. And he will send his angels with a loud trumpet call, and they will gather his elect from the four winds, from one end of the heavens to the other. And he will send his angels and gather his elect from the four winds, from the ends of the earth to the ends of the heavens. "At that time men will see the Son of Man coming in clouds with great power and glory. "But in those days, following that distress, "'the sun will be darkened, and the moon will not give its light; the stars will fall from the sky, and the heavenly bodies will be shaken.' "Immediately after the distress of those days "'the sun will be darkened, and the moon will not give its light; the stars will fall from the sky, and the heavenly bodies will be shaken.' They will see the Son of Man coming on the clouds of the sky, with power and great glory.
"I tell you the truth, this generation will certainly not pass away until all these things have happened. He told them this parable: "Look at the fig tree and all the trees. When they sprout leaves, you can see for yourselves and know that summer is near. "Now learn this lesson from the fig tree: As soon as its twigs get tender and its leaves come out, you know that summer is near. I tell you the truth, this generation will certainly not pass away until all these things have happened. "Now learn this lesson from the fig tree: As soon as its twigs get tender and its leaves come out, you know that summer is near. I tell you the truth, this generation will certainly not pass away until all these things have happened. Even so, when you see these things happening, you know that it is near, right at the door. Even so, when you see these things happening, you know that the kingdom of God is near. Heaven and earth will pass away, but my words will never pass away.
"No one knows about that day or hour, not even the angels in heaven, nor the Son, but only the Father. "No one knows about that day or hour, not even the angels in heaven, nor the Son, but only the Father.
That is how it will be at the coming of the Son of Man. For in the days before the flood, people were eating and drinking, marrying and giving in marriage, up to the day Noah entered the ark; and they knew nothing about what would happen until the flood came and took them all away. As it was in the days of Noah, so it will be at the coming of the Son of Man.
But understand this: If the owner of the house had known at what time of night the thief was coming, he would have kept watch and would not have let his house be broken into. "Therefore keep watch, because you do not know on what day your Lord will come. Two women will be grinding with a hand mill; one will be taken and the other left. Two men will be in the field; one will be taken and the other left.
Be always on the watch, and pray that you may be able to escape all that is about to happen, and that you may be able to stand before the Son of Man." "Be careful, or your hearts will be weighed down with dissipation, drunkenness and the anxieties of life, and that day will close on you unexpectedly like a trap. He will cut him to pieces and assign him a place with the hypocrites, where there will be weeping and gnashing of teeth. It will be good for that servant whose master finds him doing so when he returns. So you also must be ready, because the Son of Man will come at an hour when you do not expect him. The master of that servant will come on a day when he does not expect him and at an hour he is not aware of. I tell you the truth, he will put him in charge of all his possessions. It's like a man going away: He leaves his house and puts his servants in charge, each with his assigned task, and tells the one at the door to keep watch. You do not know when that time will come. "Therefore keep watch because you do not know when the owner of the house will come back--whether in the evening, or at midnight, or when the rooster crows, or at dawn.
The foolish ones said to the wise, 'Give us some of your oil; our lamps are going out.' "But while they were on their way to buy the oil, the bridegroom arrived. The bridegroom was a long time in coming, and they all became drowsy and fell asleep. "At that time the kingdom of heaven will be like ten virgins who took their lamps and went out to meet the bridegroom. "Then all the virgins woke up and trimmed their lamps. The virgins who were ready went in with him to the wedding banquet. The foolish ones took their lamps but did not take any oil with them. And the door was shut. 'Open the door for us!' The wise, however, took oil in jars along with their lamps.
To one he gave five talents of money, to another two talents, and to another one talent, each according to his ability. The man who had received the five talents went at once and put his money to work and gained five more. 'Master,' he said, 'I knew that you are a hard man, harvesting where you have not sown and gathering where you have not scattered seed. "Again, it will be like a man going on a journey, who called his servants and entrusted his property to them. Well then, you should have put my money on deposit with the bankers, so that when I returned I would have received it back with interest. For everyone who has will be given more, and he will have an abundance. "After a long time the master of those servants returned and settled accounts with them. So you knew that I harvest where I have not sown and gather where I have not scattered seed? But the man who had received the one talent went off, dug a hole in the ground and hid his master's money. "'Take the talent from him and give it to the one who has the ten talents.
"He will reply, 'I tell you the truth, whatever you did not do for one of the least of these, you did not do for me.' "They also will answer, 'Lord, when did we see you hungry or thirsty or a stranger or needing clothes or sick or in prison, and did not help you?' "Then he will say to those on his left, 'Depart from me, you who are cursed, into the eternal fire prepared for the devil and his angels. For I was hungry and you gave me nothing to eat, I was thirsty and you gave me nothing to drink, I was a stranger and you did not invite me in, I needed clothes and you did not clothe me, I was sick and in prison and you did not look after me.' "The King will reply, 'I tell you the truth, whatever you did for one of the least of these brothers of mine, you did for me.' When did we see you sick or in prison and go to visit you?' All the nations will be gathered before him, and he will separate the people one from another as a shepherd separates the sheep from the goats. "Then the righteous will answer him, 'Lord, when did we see you hungry and feed you, or thirsty and give you something to drink? For I was hungry and you gave me something to eat, I was thirsty and you gave me something to drink, I was a stranger and you invited me in, I needed clothes and you clothed me, I was sick and you looked after me, I was in prison and you came to visit me.' "Then the King will say to those on his right, 'Come, you who are blessed by my Father; take your inheritance, the kingdom prepared for you since the creation of the world.
The man who loves his life will lose it, while the man who hates his life in this world will keep it for eternal life. Jesus replied, "The hour has come for the Son of Man to be glorified. I tell you the truth, unless a kernel of wheat falls to the ground and dies, it remains only a single seed. The crowd that was there and heard it said it had thundered; others said an angel had spoken to him. But I, when I am lifted up from the earth, will draw all men to myself." Put your trust in the light while you have it, so that you may become sons of light. Now is the time for judgment on this world; now the prince of this world will be driven out. The crowd spoke up, "We have heard from the Law that the Christ will remain forever, so how can you say, 'The Son of Man must be lifted up'? He said this to show the kind of death he was going to die. My Father will honor the one who serves me.
" When he had finished speaking, Jesus left and hid himself from them.
When Jesus had finished saying all these things, he said to his disciples, "As you know, the Passover is two days away--and the Son of Man will be handed over to be crucified."
Now the Feast of Unleavened Bread, called the Passover, was approaching, and the chief priests and the teachers of the law were looking for some way to get rid of Jesus, for they were afraid of the people. "But not during the Feast," they said, "or the people may riot." Now the Passover and the Feast of Unleavened Bread were only two days away, and the chief priests and the teachers of the law were looking for some sly way to arrest Jesus and kill him. "But not during the Feast," they said, "or there may be a riot among the people." Then the chief priests and the elders of the people assembled in the palace of the high priest, whose name was Caiaphas, and they plotted to arrest Jesus in some sly way and kill him.
From then on Judas watched for an opportunity to hand him over. Then one of the Twelve--the one called Judas Iscariot--went to the chief priests and asked, "What are you willing to give me if I hand him over to you?" And Judas went to the chief priests and the officers of the temple guard and discussed with them how he might betray Jesus. Then Judas Iscariot, one of the Twelve, went to the chief priests to betray Jesus to them. They were delighted and agreed to give him money. He consented, and watched for an opportunity to hand Jesus over to them when no crowd was present. So he watched for an opportunity to hand him over. They were delighted to hear this and promised to give him money. So they counted out for him thirty silver coins. Then Satan entered Judas, called Iscariot, one of the Twelve.
But because of the Pharisees they would not confess their faith for fear they would be put out of the synagogue; for they loved praise from men more than praise from God. Isaiah said this because he saw Jesus' glory and spoke about him. Yet at the same time many even among the leaders believed in him. For this reason they could not believe, because, as Isaiah says elsewhere: "He has blinded their eyes and deadened their hearts, so they can neither see with their eyes, nor understand with their hearts, nor turn--and I would heal them." This was to fulfill the word of Isaiah the prophet: "Lord, who has believed our message and to whom has the arm of the Lord been revealed?" Even after Jesus had done all these miraculous signs in their presence, they still would not believe in him.
For I did not speak of my own accord, but the Father who sent me commanded me what to say and how to say it. For I did not come to judge the world, but to save it. There is a judge for the one who rejects me and does not accept my words; that very word which I spoke will condemn him at the last day. I have come into the world as a light, so that no one who believes in me should stay in darkness. So whatever I say is just what the Father has told me to say." When he looks at me, he sees the one who sent me. "As for the person who hears my words but does not keep them, I do not judge him. Then Jesus cried out, "When a man believes in me, he does not believe in me only, but in the one who sent me. I know that his command leads to eternal life.
(Jesus rests?).
On the first day of the Feast of Unleavened Bread, when it was customary to sacrifice the Passover lamb, Jesus' disciples asked him, "Where do you want us to go and make preparations for you to eat the Passover?" On the first day of the Feast of Unleavened Bread, the disciples came to Jesus and asked, "Where do you want us to make preparations for you to eat the Passover?" Jesus sent Peter and John, saying, "Go and make preparations for us to eat the Passover." He replied, "Go into the city to a certain man and tell him, 'The Teacher says: My appointed time is near. Follow him to the house that he enters, and say to the owner of the house, 'The Teacher asks: Where is the guest room, where I may eat the Passover with my disciples?' He replied, "As you enter the city, a man carrying a jar of water will meet you. So he sent two of his disciples, telling them, "Go into the city, and a man carrying a jar of water will meet you. Say to the owner of the house he enters, 'The Teacher asks: Where is my guest room, where I may eat the Passover with my disciples?' Then came the day of Unleavened Bread on which the Passover lamb had to be sacrificed. So they prepared the Passover.
When the hour came, Jesus and his apostles reclined at the table. When evening came, Jesus arrived with the Twelve. When evening came, Jesus was reclining at the table with the Twelve.
For I tell you, I will not eat it again until it finds fulfillment in the kingdom of God." And he said to them, "I have eagerly desired to eat this Passover with you before I suffer.
He came to Simon Peter, who said to him, "Lord, are you going to wash my feet?" For he knew who was going to betray him, and that was why he said not every one was clean. Now that I, your Lord and Teacher, have washed your feet, you also should wash one another's feet. And you are clean, though not every one of you." After that, he poured water into a basin and began to wash his disciples' feet, drying them with the towel that was wrapped around him. I tell you the truth, no servant is greater than his master, nor is a messenger greater than the one who sent him. Jesus knew that the time had come for him to leave this world and go to the Father. Jesus knew that the Father had put all things under his power, and that he had come from God and was returning to God; so he got up from the meal, took off his outer clothing, and wrapped a towel around his waist. "You call me 'Teacher' and 'Lord,' and rightly so, for that is what I am. Now that you know these things, you will be blessed if you do them.
After he had said this, Jesus was troubled in spirit and testified, "I tell you the truth, one of you is going to betray me." I tell you the truth, whoever accepts anyone I send accepts me; and whoever accepts me accepts the one who sent me." But this is to fulfill the scripture: 'He who shares my bread has lifted up his heel against me.' "I am not referring to all of you; I know those I have chosen. The Son of Man will go as it has been decreed, but woe to that man who betrays him." And while they were eating, he said, "I tell you the truth, one of you will betray me." While they were reclining at the table eating, he said, "I tell you the truth, one of you will betray me--one who is eating with me." "I am telling you now before it happens, so that when it does happen you will believe that I am He. But the hand of him who is going to betray me is with mine on the table.
Leaning back against Jesus, he asked him, "Lord, who is it?" One of them, the disciple whom Jesus loved, was reclining next to him. They began to question among themselves which of them it might be who would do this. The Son of Man will go just as it is written about him. "It is one of the Twelve," he replied, "one who dips bread into the bowl with me. The Son of Man will go just as it is written about him. His disciples stared at one another, at a loss to know which of them he meant. They were saddened, and one by one they said to him, "Surely not I?" Simon Peter motioned to this disciple and said, "Ask him which one he means." They were very sad and began to say to him one after the other, "Surely not I, Lord?"
As soon as Judas took the bread, Satan entered into him. Then, dipping the piece of bread, he gave it to Judas Iscariot, son of Simon. Jesus answered, "It is the one to whom I will give this piece of bread when I have dipped it in the dish."
Since Judas had charge of the money, some thought Jesus was telling him to buy what was needed for the Feast, or to give something to the poor. As soon as Judas had taken the bread, he went out. "What you are about to do, do quickly," Jesus told him, but no one at the meal understood why Jesus said this to him. And it was night.
You will look for me, and just as I told the Jews, so I tell you now: Where I am going, you cannot come. "My children, I will be with you only a little longer. By this all men will know that you are my disciples, if you love one another." "A new command I give you: Love one another. As I have loved you, so you must love one another. If God is glorified in him, God will glorify the Son in himself, and will glorify him at once. When he was gone, Jesus said, "Now is the Son of Man glorified and God is glorified in him.
And he took bread, gave thanks and broke it, and gave it to them, saying, "This is my body given for you; do this in remembrance of me." While they were eating, Jesus took bread, gave thanks and broke it, and gave it to his disciples, saying, "Take it; this is my body." While they were eating, Jesus took bread, gave thanks and broke it, and gave it to his disciples, saying, "Take and eat; this is my body."
In the same way, after the supper he took the cup, saying, "This cup is the new covenant in my blood, which is poured out for you. "This is my blood of the covenant, which is poured out for many," he said to them. Then he took the cup, gave thanks and offered it to them, and they all drank from it. This is my blood of the covenant, which is poured out for many for the forgiveness of sins. Then he took the cup, gave thanks and offered it to them, saying, "Drink from it, all of you.
For I tell you I will not drink again of the fruit of the vine until the kingdom of God comes." After taking the cup, he gave thanks and said, "Take this and divide it among you. "I tell you the truth, I will not drink again of the fruit of the vine until that day when I drink it anew in the kingdom of God." I tell you, I will not drink of this fruit of the vine from now on until that day when I drink it anew with you in my Father's kingdom."
But I am among you as one who serves. Jesus said to them, "The kings of the Gentiles lord it over them; and those who exercise authority over them call themselves Benefactors. Instead, the greatest among you should be like the youngest, and the one who rules like the one who serves. And I confer on you a kingdom, just as my Father conferred one on me, so that you may eat and drink at my table in my kingdom and sit on thrones, judging the twelve tribes of Israel. But you are not to be like that. You are those who have stood by me in my trials. Is it not the one who is at the table? For who is greater, the one who is at the table or the one who serves? Also a dispute arose among them as to which of them was considered to be greatest.
I tell you the truth, before the rooster crows, you will disown me three times! Then Jesus answered, "Will you really lay down your life for me? I will lay down my life for you." Peter asked, "Lord, why can't I follow you now? Jesus replied, "Where I am going, you cannot follow now, but you will follow later." Simon Peter asked him, "Lord, where are you going?" Jesus answered, "I tell you, Peter, before the rooster crows today, you will deny three times that you know me." But he replied, "Lord, I am ready to go with you to prison and to death." And when you have turned back, strengthen your brothers." But I have prayed for you, Simon, that your faith may not fail.
You may ask me for anything in my name, and I will do it. And I will do whatever you ask in my name, so that the Son may bring glory to the Father. I tell you the truth, anyone who has faith in me will do what I have been doing. And if I go and prepare a place for you, I will come back and take you to be with me that you also may be where I am. The words I say to you are not just my own. Don't you believe that I am in the Father, and that the Father is in me? Believe me when I say that I am in the Father and the Father is in me; or at least believe on the evidence of the miracles themselves. Jesus answered: "Don't you know me, Philip, even after I have been among you such a long time? He will do even greater things than these, because I am going to the Father. Philip said, "Lord, show us the Father and that will be enough for us."
I will not speak with you much longer, for the prince of this world is coming. If you loved me, you would be glad that I am going to the Father, for the Father is greater than I. I have told you now before it happens, so that when it does happen you will believe. But the Counselor, the Holy Spirit, whom the Father will send in my name, will teach you all things and will remind you of everything I have said to you. And I will ask the Father, and he will give you another Counselor to be with you forever-- the Spirit of truth. Before long, the world will not see me anymore, but you will see me. But you know him, for he lives with you and will be in you. My Father will love him, and we will come to him and make our home with him. These words you hear are not my own; they belong to the Father who sent me. He who loves me will be loved by my Father, and I too will love him and show myself to him." I do not give to you as the world gives.
It is written: 'And he was numbered with the transgressors'; and I tell you that this must be fulfilled in me. The disciples said, "See, Lord, here are two swords.That is enough," he replied. He said to them, "But now if you have a purse, take it, and also a bag; and if you don't have a sword, sell your cloak and buy one. Yes, what is written about me is reaching its fulfillment." Then Jesus asked them, "When I sent you without purse, bag or sandals, did you lack anything?Nothing," they answered.
"Come now; let us leave. Jesus went out as usual to the Mount of Olives, and his disciples followed him. When they had sung a hymn, they went out to the Mount of Olives. When they had sung a hymn, they went out to the Mount of Olives.
Peter declared, "Even if all fall away, I will not." "I tell you the truth," Jesus answered, "today--yes, tonight--before the rooster crows twice you yourself will disown me three times." Then Jesus told them, "This very night you will all fall away on account of me, for it is written: "'I will strike the shepherd, and the sheep of the flock will be scattered.' "You will all fall away," Jesus told them, "for it is written: "'I will strike the shepherd, and the sheep will be scattered.' Peter replied, "Even if all fall away on account of you, I never will." "I tell you the truth," Jesus answered, "this very night, before the rooster crows, you will disown me three times." But after I have risen, I will go ahead of you into Galilee." But Peter insisted emphatically, "Even if I have to die with you, I will never disown you." But after I have risen, I will go ahead of you into Galilee." But Peter declared, "Even if I have to die with you, I will never disown you."
If anyone does not remain in me, he is like a branch that is thrown away and withers; such branches are picked up, thrown into the fire and burned. If you obey my commands, you will remain in my love, just as I have obeyed my Father's commands and remain in his love. I have told you this so that my joy may be in you and that your joy may be complete. This is to my Father's glory, that you bear much fruit, showing yourselves to be my disciples. Instead, I have called you friends, for everything that I learned from my Father I have made known to you. Then the Father will give you whatever you ask in my name. If you remain in me and my words remain in you, ask whatever you wish, and it will be given you. If a man remains in me and I in him, he will bear much fruit; apart from me you can do nothing. You are my friends if you do what I command. My command is this: Love each other as I have loved you.
But this is to fulfill what is written in their Law: 'They hated me without reason.' They will treat you this way because of my name, for they do not know the One who sent me. If they persecuted me, they will persecute you also. As it is, you do not belong to the world, but I have chosen you out of the world. And you also must testify, for you have been with me from the beginning. "If the world hates you, keep in mind that it hated me first. "When the Counselor comes, whom I will send to you from the Father, the Spirit of truth who goes out from the Father, he will testify about me. If I had not come and spoken to them, they would not be guilty of sin. If you belonged to the world, it would love you as its own. If I had not done among them what no one else did, they would not be guilty of sin.
That is why I said the Spirit will take from what is mine and make it known to you. He will bring glory to me by taking from what is mine and making it known to you. He will not speak on his own; he will speak only what he hears, and he will tell you what is yet to come. Unless I go away, the Counselor will not come to you; but if I go, I will send him to you. But when he, the Spirit of truth, comes, he will guide you into all truth. "I have much more to say to you, more than you can now bear. When he comes, he will convict the world of guilt in regard to sin and righteousness and judgment: in regard to sin, because men do not believe in me; in regard to righteousness, because I am going to the Father, where you can see me no longer; and in regard to judgment, because the prince of this world now stands condemned. "Now I am going to him who sent me, yet none of you asks me, 'Where are you going?' But I tell you the truth: It is for your good that I am going away. All that belongs to the Father is mine.
Jesus saw that they wanted to ask him about this, so he said to them, "Are you asking one another what I meant when I said, 'In a little while you will see me no more, and then after a little while you will see me'? Some of his disciples said to one another, "What does he mean by saying, 'In a little while you will see me no more, and then after a little while you will see me,' and 'Because I am going to the Father'?" So with you: Now is your time of grief, but I will see you again and you will rejoice, and no one will take away your joy. I tell you the truth, you will weep and mourn while the world rejoices. "In a little while you will see me no more, and then after a little while you will see me." You will grieve, but your grief will turn to joy. In that day you will no longer ask me anything. I tell you the truth, my Father will give you whatever you ask in my name. Ask and you will receive, and your joy will be complete. A woman giving birth to a child has pain because her time has come; but when her baby is born she forgets the anguish because of her joy that a child is born into the world.
"Though I have been speaking figuratively, a time is coming when I will no longer use this kind of language but will tell you plainly about my Father. Now we can see that you know all things and that you do not even need to have anyone ask you questions. "But a time is coming, and has come, when you will be scattered, each to his own home. No, the Father himself loves you because you have loved me and have believed that I came from God. In this world you will have trouble. "I have told you these things, so that in me you may have peace. In that day you will ask in my name. This makes us believe that you came from God." You will leave me all alone. Then Jesus' disciples said, "Now you are speaking clearly and without figures of speech.
I have made you known to them, and will continue to make you known in order that the love you have for me may be in them and that I myself may be in them." May they be brought to complete unity to let the world know that you sent me and have loved them even as you have loved me. For I gave them the words you gave me and they accepted them. I have given them the glory that you gave me, that they may be one as we are one: I in them and you in me. As you sent me into the world, I have sent them into the world. I pray also for those who will believe in me through their message, that all of them may be one, Father, just as you are in me and I am in you. "I am coming to you now, but I say these things while I am still in the world, so that they may have the full measure of my joy within them. Holy Father, protect them by the power of your name--the name you gave me--so that they may be one as we are one. My prayer is not that you take them out of the world but that you protect them from the evil one. I have given them your word and the world has hated them, for they are not of the world any more than I am of the world.
On the other side there was an olive grove, and he and his disciples went into it. When he had finished praying, Jesus left with his disciples and crossed the Kidron Valley. They went to a place called Gethsemane, and Jesus said to his disciples, "Sit here while I pray." He took Peter and the two sons of Zebedee along with him, and he began to be sorrowful and troubled. He took Peter, James and John along with him, and he began to be deeply distressed and troubled. Then Jesus went with his disciples to a place called Gethsemane, and he said to them, "Sit here while I go over there and pray." Stay here and keep watch with me." Then he said to them, "My soul is overwhelmed with sorrow to the point of death. "My soul is overwhelmed with sorrow to the point of death," he said to them. On reaching the place, he said to them, "Pray that you will not fall into temptation."
He withdrew about a stone's throw beyond them, knelt down and prayed, "Father, if you are willing, take this cup from me; yet not my will, but yours be done." "Abba, Father," he said, "everything is possible for you. Going a little farther, he fell to the ground and prayed that if possible the hour might pass from him. When he rose from prayer and went back to the disciples, he found them asleep, exhausted from sorrow. Going a little farther, he fell with his face to the ground and prayed, "My Father, if it is possible, may this cup be taken from me. And being in anguish, he prayed more earnestly, and his sweat was like drops of blood falling to the ground. An angel from heaven appeared to him and strengthened him. Take this cup from me. Yet not what I will, but what you will." Yet not as I will, but as you will."
He went away a second time and prayed, "My Father, if it is not possible for this cup to be taken away unless I drink it, may your will be done." "Simon," he said to Peter, "are you asleep? Once more he went away and prayed the same thing. Then he returned to his disciples and found them sleeping. Then he returned to his disciples and found them sleeping. Watch and pray so that you will not fall into temptation. "Get up and pray so that you will not fall into temptation." "Watch and pray so that you will not fall into temptation. "Why are you sleeping?" Could you not keep watch for one hour?
Returning the third time, he said to them, "Are you still sleeping and resting? Then he returned to the disciples and said to them, "Are you still sleeping and resting? Rise, let us go! So he left them and went away once more and prayed the third time, saying the same thing. Here comes my betrayer!" Enough! Here comes my betrayer!" Look, the hour is near, and the Son of Man is betrayed into the hands of sinners. The hour has come. Look, the Son of Man is betrayed into the hands of sinners.
So Judas came to the grove, guiding a detachment of soldiers and some officials from the chief priests and Pharisees. While he was still speaking a crowd came up, and the man who was called Judas, one of the Twelve, was leading them. He approached Jesus to kiss him, but Jesus asked him, "Judas, are you betraying the Son of Man with a kiss?" Now Judas, who betrayed him, knew the place, because Jesus had often met there with his disciples. Now the betrayer had arranged a signal with them: "The one I kiss is the man; arrest him and lead him away under guard." With him was a crowd armed with swords and clubs, sent from the chief priests, the teachers of the law, and the elders. With him was a large crowd armed with swords and clubs, sent from the chief priests and the elders of the people. While he was still speaking, Judas, one of the Twelve, arrived. Just as he was speaking, Judas, one of the Twelve, appeared. Now the betrayer had arranged a signal with them: "The one I kiss is the man; arrest him."
This happened so that the words he had spoken would be fulfilled: "I have not lost one of those you gave me." Jesus, knowing all that was going to happen to him, went out and asked them, "Who is it you want?" "I told you that I am he," Jesus answered. When Jesus said, "I am he," they drew back and fell to the ground. Again he asked them, "Who is it you want?" "I am he," Jesus said. And they said, "Jesus of Nazareth." "Jesus of Nazareth," they replied. (And Judas the traitor was standing there with them.) "If you are looking for me, then let these men go."
With that, one of Jesus' companions reached for his sword, drew it out and struck the servant of the high priest, cutting off his ear. Then the men stepped forward, seized Jesus and arrested him. The men seized Jesus and arrested him. "Put your sword back in its place," Jesus said to him, "for all who draw the sword will die by the sword. Then one of those standing near drew his sword and struck the servant of the high priest, cutting off his ear. But how then would the Scriptures be fulfilled that say it must happen in this way?" Then Simon Peter, who had a sword, drew it and struck the high priest's servant, cutting off his right ear. And one of them struck the servant of the high priest, cutting off his right ear. Do you think I cannot call on my Father, and he will at once put at my disposal more than twelve legions of angels? Shall I not drink the cup the Father has given me?"
But this has all taken place that the writings of the prophets might be fulfilled. But the Scriptures must be fulfilled." Every day I was with you, teaching in the temple courts, and you did not arrest me. Then Jesus said to the chief priests, the officers of the temple guard, and the elders, who had come for him, "Am I leading a rebellion, that you have come with swords and clubs? Every day I was with you in the temple courts, and you did not lay a hand on me. At that time Jesus said to the crowd, "Am I leading a rebellion, that you have come out with swords and clubs to capture me? Every day I sat in the temple courts teaching, and you did not arrest me. "Am I leading a rebellion," said Jesus, "that you have come out with swords and clubs to capture me? But this is your hour--when darkness reigns."
" Then all the disciples deserted him and fled. Then everyone deserted him and fled. Then the detachment of soldiers with its commander and the Jewish officials arrested Jesus. They bound him.
When they seized him, he fled naked, leaving his garment behind. A young man, wearing nothing but a linen garment, was following Jesus.
Then seizing him, they led him away and took him into the house of the high priest. They took Jesus to the high priest, and all the chief priests, elders and teachers of the law came together. Those who had arrested Jesus took him to Caiaphas, the high priest, where the teachers of the law and the elders had assembled.
Caiaphas was the one who had advised the Jews that it would be good if one man died for the people. and brought him first to Annas, who was the father-in-law of Caiaphas, the high priest that year.
The other disciple, who was known to the high priest, came back, spoke to the girl on duty there and brought Peter in. Because this disciple was known to the high priest, he went with Jesus into the high priest's courtyard, but Peter had to wait outside at the door. Simon Peter and another disciple were following Jesus. There he sat with the guards and warmed himself at the fire. But Peter followed him at a distance, right up to the courtyard of the high priest. Peter followed him at a distance, right into the courtyard of the high priest. Peter followed at a distance. He entered and sat down with the guards to see the outcome.
Then he went out to the gateway, where another girl saw him and said to the people there, "This fellow was with Jesus of Nazareth. But when they had kindled a fire in the middle of the courtyard and had sat down together, Peter sat down with them. She looked closely at him and said, "This man was with him." "Woman, I don't know him," he said. "You also were with Jesus of Galilee," she said. It was cold, and the servants and officials stood around a fire they had made to keep warm. Peter also was standing with them, warming himself. When she saw Peter warming himself, she looked closely at him. While Peter was below in the courtyard, one of the servant girls of the high priest came by. "I don't know what you're talking about," he said.
and went out into the entryway.
But if I spoke the truth, why did you strike me?" When Jesus said this, one of the officials nearby struck him in the face. "If I said something wrong," Jesus replied, "testify as to what is wrong. "Is this the way you answer the high priest?" Then Annas sent him, still bound, to Caiaphas the high priest. "I have spoken openly to the world," Jesus replied. Meanwhile, the high priest questioned Jesus about his disciples and his teaching. "I always taught in synagogues or at the temple, where all the Jews come together. he demanded. I said nothing in secret.
The chief priests and the whole Sanhedrin were looking for evidence against Jesus so that they could put him to death, but they did not find any. Then the high priest stood up before them and asked Jesus, "Are you not going to answer? Then the high priest stood up and said to Jesus, "Are you not going to answer? "But I say to all of you: In the future you will see the Son of Man sitting at the right hand of the Mighty One and coming on the clouds of heaven." The chief priests and the whole Sanhedrin were looking for false evidence against Jesus so that they could put him to death. Then some stood up and gave this false testimony against him: "We heard him say, 'I will destroy this man-made temple and in three days will build another, not made by man.'" What do you think?He is worthy of death," they answered. Finally two came forward and declared, "This fellow said, 'I am able to destroy the temple of God and rebuild it in three days.'" Again the high priest asked him, "Are you the Christ, the Son of the Blessed One?" The high priest said to him, "I charge you under oath by the living God: Tell us if you are the Christ, the Son of God."
The men who were guarding Jesus began mocking and beating him. And they said many other insulting things to him. They all condemned him as worthy of death. They blindfolded him and demanded, "Prophesy! And the guards took him and beat him. Then some began to spit at him; they blindfolded him, struck him with their fists, and said, "Prophesy!" Then they spit in his face and struck him with their fists. Others slapped him and said, "Prophesy to us, Christ. Who hit you?" Who hit you?"
As Simon Peter stood warming himself, he was asked, "You are not one of his disciples, are you?" When the servant girl saw him there, she said again to those standing around, "This fellow is one of them." He denied it, saying, "I am not." " He denied it again, with an oath: "I don't know the man!" Again he denied it. A little later someone else saw him and said, "You also are one of them.Man, I am not!" Peter replied.
One of the high priest's servants, a relative of the man whose ear Peter had cut off, challenged him, "Didn't I see you with him in the olive grove?" Peter replied, "Man, I don't know what you're talking about! After a little while, those standing there went up to Peter and said, "Surely you are one of them, for your accent gives you away." After a little while, those standing near said to Peter, "Surely you are one of them, for you are a Galilean." He began to call down curses on himself, and he swore to them, "I don't know this man you're talking about." About an hour later another asserted, "Certainly this fellow was with him, for he is a Galilean." Then he began to call down curses on himself and he swore to them, "I don't know the man! Again Peter denied it.
and at that moment a rooster began to crow. " Just as he was speaking, the rooster crowed. Then Peter remembered the word Jesus had spoken to him: Immediately the rooster crowed the second time. "
The Lord turned and looked straight at Peter. Then Peter remembered the word the Lord had spoken to him: "Before the rooster crows today, you will disown me three times." Then Peter remembered the word Jesus had spoken: "Before the rooster crows, you will disown me three times." "Before the rooster crows twice you will disown me three times." And he broke down and wept. And he went outside and wept bitterly. And he went outside and wept bitterly. Immediately a rooster crowed.
But from now on, the Son of Man will be seated at the right hand of the mighty God." They all asked, "Are you then the Son of God?" "If you are the Christ, "they said, "tell us." Early in the morning, all the chief priests and the elders of the people came to the decision to put Jesus to death. At daybreak the council of the elders of the people, both the chief priests and teachers of the law, met together, and Jesus was led before them. He replied, "You are right in saying I am." Jesus answered, "If I tell you, you will not believe me, and if I asked you, you would not answer. Very early in the morning, the chief priests, with the elders, the teachers of the law and the whole Sanhedrin, reached a decision. Then they said, "Why do we need any more testimony? We have heard it from his own lips."
Then what was spoken by Jeremiah the prophet was fulfilled: "They took the thirty silver coins, the price set on him by the people of Israel, and they used them to buy the potter's field, as the Lord commanded me." So they decided to use the money to buy the potter's field as a burial place for foreigners. When Judas, who had betrayed him, saw that Jesus was condemned, he was seized with remorse and returned the thirty silver coins to the chief priests and the elders. The chief priests picked up the coins and said, "It is against the law to put this into the treasury, since it is blood money." "That's your responsibility." That is why it has been called the Field of Blood to this day. "I have sinned," he said, "for I have betrayed innocent blood.What is that to us?" So Judas threw the money into the temple and left. Then he went away and hanged himself. they replied.
"If he were not a criminal," they replied, "we would not have handed him over to you." He opposes payment of taxes to Caesar and claims to be Christ, a king." By now it was early morning, and to avoid ceremonial uncleanness the Jews did not enter the palace; they wanted to be able to eat the Passover. So Pilate came out to them and asked, "What charges are you bringing against this man?" They bound Jesus, led him away and handed him over to Pilate. Then the whole assembly rose and led him off to Pilate. They bound him, led him away and handed him over to Pilate, the governor. And they began to accuse him, saying, "We have found this man subverting our nation. This happened so that the words Jesus had spoken indicating the kind of death he was going to die would be fulfilled. "But we have no right to execute anyone," the Jews objected.
So Pilate asked Jesus, "Are you the king of the Jews?Yes, it is as you say," Jesus replied. Meanwhile Jesus stood before the governor, and the governor asked him, "Are you the king of the Jews?Yes, it is as you say," Jesus replied. Pilate then went back inside the palace, summoned Jesus and asked him, "Are you the king of the Jews?" So again Pilate asked him, "Aren't you going to answer? Then Pilate asked him, "Don't you hear the testimony they are bringing against you?" "Is that your own idea," Jesus asked, "or did others talk to you about me?" Then Pilate announced to the chief priests and the crowd, "I find no basis for a charge against this man." "Are you the king of the Jews?" But Jesus made no reply, not even to a single charge--to the great amazement of the governor. "It was your people and your chief priests who handed you over to me.
Dressing him in an elegant robe, they sent him back to Pilate. When Herod saw Jesus, he was greatly pleased, because for a long time he had been wanting to see him. The chief priests and the teachers of the law were standing there, vehemently accusing him. But they insisted, "He stirs up the people all over Judea by his teaching. When he learned that Jesus was under Herod's jurisdiction, he sent him to Herod, who was also in Jerusalem at that time. He started in Galilee and has come all the way here." That day Herod and Pilate became friends--before this they had been enemies. From what he had heard about him, he hoped to see him perform some miracle. Then Herod and his soldiers ridiculed and mocked him. He plied him with many questions, but Jesus gave him no answer.
While Pilate was sitting on the judge's seat, his wife sent him this message: "Don't have anything to do with that innocent man, for I have suffered a great deal today in a dream because of him."
Therefore, I will punish him and then release him." Neither has Herod, for he sent him back to us; as you can see, he has done nothing to deserve death. I have examined him in your presence and have found no basis for your charges against him. Pilate called together the chief priests, the rulers and the people, and said to them, "You brought me this man as one who was inciting the people to rebellion.
But it is your custom for me to release to you one prisoner at the time of the Passover. asked Pilate, knowing it was out of envy that the chief priests had handed Jesus over to him. A man called Barabbas was in prison with the insurrectionists who had committed murder in the uprising. Now it was the custom at the Feast to release a prisoner whom the people requested. Now it was the governor's custom at the Feast to release a prisoner chosen by the crowd. For he knew it was out of envy that they had handed Jesus over to him. So when the crowd had gathered, Pilate asked them, "Which one do you want me to release to you: Barabbas, or Jesus who is called Christ?" See Footnote Do you want me to release 'the king of the Jews'?" The crowd came up and asked Pilate to do for them what he usually did.
But the chief priests and the elders persuaded the crowd to ask for Barabbas and to have Jesus executed. But the chief priests stirred up the crowd to have Pilate release Barabbas instead. (Barabbas had been thrown into prison for an insurrection in the city, and for murder.) "Barabbas," they answered. Release Barabbas to us!" Now Barabbas had taken part in a rebellion. Give us Barabbas!" "Which of the two do you want me to release to you?" asked the governor. They shouted back, "No, not him!
For the third time he spoke to them: "Why? Therefore I will have him punished and then release him." But with loud shouts they insistently demanded that he be crucified, and their shouts prevailed. But they shouted all the louder, "Crucify him!" But they shouted all the louder, "Crucify him!" "What shall I do, then, with the one you call the king of the Jews?" I have found in him no grounds for the death penalty. But they kept shouting, "Crucify him! They all answered, "Crucify him!" Wanting to release Jesus, Pilate appealed to them again.
They clothed him in a purple robe and went up to him again and again, saying, "Hail, king of the Jews!" Again and again they struck him on the head with a staff and spit on him. And they began to call out to him, "Hail, king of the Jews!" They put a staff in his right hand and knelt in front of him and mocked him. They stripped him and put a scarlet robe on him, and then twisted together a crown of thorns and set it on his head. They spit on him, and took the staff and struck him on the head again and again. They put a purple robe on him, then twisted together a crown of thorns and set it on him. And they struck him in the face. Then the governor's soldiers took Jesus into the Praetorium and gathered the whole company of soldiers around him. The soldiers twisted together a crown of thorns and put it on his head.
Once more Pilate came out and said to the Jews, "Look, I am bringing him out to you to let you know that I find no basis for a charge against him." But Pilate answered, "You take him and crucify him. From then on, Pilate tried to set Jesus free, but the Jews kept shouting, "If you let this man go, you are no friend of Caesar. As soon as the chief priests and their officials saw him, they shouted, "Crucify! "We have no king but Caesar," the chief priests answered. "Here is your king," Pilate said to the Jews. When Jesus came out wearing the crown of thorns and the purple robe, Pilate said to them, "Here is the man!" Therefore the one who handed me over to you is guilty of a greater sin." Jesus answered, "You would have no power over me if it were not given to you from above. The Jews insisted, "We have a law, and according to that law he must die, because he claimed to be the Son of God."
All the people answered, "Let his blood be on us and on our children!" "It is your responsibility!" "I am innocent of this man's blood," he said. When Pilate saw that he was getting nowhere, but that instead an uproar was starting, he took water and washed his hands in front of the crowd.
But he had Jesus flogged, and handed him over to be crucified. Wanting to satisfy the crowd, Pilate released Barabbas to them. He had Jesus flogged, and handed him over to be crucified. Then he released Barabbas to them. So Pilate decided to grant their demand. Finally Pilate handed him over to them to be crucified. He released the man who had been thrown into prison for insurrection and murder, the one they asked for, and surrendered Jesus to their will.
Carrying his own cross, he went out to the place of the Skull (which in Aramaic is called Golgotha). And when they had mocked him, they took off the purple robe and put his own clothes on him. After they had mocked him, they took off the robe and put his own clothes on him. Then they led him out to crucify him. Then they led him away to crucify him. So the soldiers took charge of Jesus.
As they led him away, they seized Simon from Cyrene, who was on his way in from the country, and put the cross on him and made him carry it behind Jesus. A certain man from Cyrene, Simon, the father of Alexander and Rufus, was passing by on his way in from the country, and they forced him to carry the cross. As they were going out, they met a man from Cyrene, named Simon, and they forced him to carry the cross.
For if men do these things when the tree is green, what will happen when it is dry?" and to the hills, "Cover us!"' For the time will come when you will say, 'Blessed are the barren women, the wombs that never bore and the breasts that never nursed!' Jesus turned and said to them, "Daughters of Jerusalem, do not weep for me; weep for yourselves and for your children. Then "'they will say to the mountains, "Fall on us!" A large number of people followed him, including women who mourned and wailed for him.
Here they crucified him, and with him two others--one on each side and Jesus in the middle. When they came to the place called the Skull, there they crucified him, along with the criminals--one on his right, the other on his left. And they crucified him. Then they offered him wine mixed with myrrh, but he did not take it. They brought Jesus to the place called Golgotha (which means The Place of the Skull). When they had crucified him, they divided up his clothes by casting lots. There they offered Jesus wine to drink, mixed with gall; but after tasting it, he refused to drink it. They came to a place called Golgotha (which means The Place of the Skull).
Jesus said, "Father, forgive them, for they do not know what they are doing.
Dividing up his clothes, they cast lots to see what each would get. "Let's not tear it," they said to one another. When the soldiers crucified Jesus, they took his clothes, dividing them into four shares, one for each of them, with the undergarment remaining. This happened that the scripture might be fulfilled which said, "They divided my garments among them and cast lots for my clothing." " And they divided up his clothes by casting lots. And sitting down, they kept watch over him there. This garment was seamless, woven in one piece from top to bottom. So this is what the soldiers did. "Let's decide by lot who will get it."
It was the third hour when they crucified him.
The chief priests of the Jews protested to Pilate, "Do not write 'The King of the Jews,' but that this man claimed to be king of the Jews." Many of the Jews read this sign, for the place where Jesus was crucified was near the city, and the sign was written in Aramaic, Latin and Greek. There was a written notice above him, which read:|sc THIS IS THE KING OF THE JEWS. Pilate had a notice prepared and fastened to the cross. The written notice of the charge against him read: THE KING OF THE JEWS. Above his head they placed the written charge against him: THIS IS JESUS, THE KING OF THE JEWS. It read:|sc JESUS OF NAZARETH, THE KING OF THE JEWS. Pilate answered, "What I have written, I have written."
Two other men, both criminals, were also led out with him to be executed. They crucified two robbers with him, one on his right and one on his left. Two robbers were crucified with him, one on his right and one on his left.
Those who passed by hurled insults at him, shaking their heads and saying, "You who are going to destroy the temple and build it in three days, save yourself! Let God rescue him now if he wants him, for he said, 'I am the Son of God.'" They said, "He saved others; let him save himself if he is the Christ of God, the Chosen One." You who are going to destroy the temple and build it in three days, come down from the cross and save yourself!" In the same way the chief priests and the teachers of the law mocked him among themselves. Let him come down now from the cross, and we will believe in him. In the same way the chief priests, the teachers of the law and the elders mocked him. In the same way the robbers who were crucified with him also heaped insults on him. The people stood watching, and the rulers even sneered at him. Come down from the cross, if you are the Son of God!"
They offered him wine vinegar and said, "If you are the king of the Jews, save yourself." The soldiers also came up and mocked him.
"Don't you fear God," he said, "since you are under the same sentence? But the other criminal rebuked him. Jesus answered him, "I tell you the truth, today you will be with me in paradise." One of the criminals who hung there hurled insults at him: "Aren't you the Christ? Save yourself and us!" Then he said, "Jesus, remember me when you come into your kingdom. " But this man has done nothing wrong." We are punished justly, for we are getting what our deeds deserve.
From that time on, this disciple took her into his home. When Jesus saw his mother there, and the disciple whom he loved standing nearby, he said to his mother, "Dear woman, here is your son," and to the disciple, "Here is your mother." Near the cross of Jesus stood his mother, his mother's sister, Mary the wife of Clopas, and Mary Magdalene.
It was now about the sixth hour, and darkness came over the whole land until the ninth hour, for the sun stopped shining. At the sixth hour darkness came over the whole land until the ninth hour. From the sixth hour until the ninth hour darkness came over all the land.
When some of those standing near heard this, they said, "Listen, he's calling Elijah." --which means, "My God, my God, why have you forsaken me?" And at the ninth hour Jesus cried out in a loud voice, "Eloi, Eloi, lama sabachthani?" When some of those standing there heard this, they said, "He's calling Elijah." --which means, "My God, my God, why have you forsaken me?" About the ninth hour Jesus cried out in a loud voice, "Eloi, Eloi, lama sabachthani?"
A jar of wine vinegar was there, so they soaked a sponge in it, put the sponge on a stalk of the hyssop plant, and lifted it to Jesus' lips. Later, knowing that all was now completed, and so that the Scripture would be fulfilled, Jesus said, "I am thirsty." One man ran, filled a sponge with wine vinegar, put it on a stick, and offered it to Jesus to drink. He filled it with wine vinegar, put it on a stick, and offered it to Jesus to drink. Immediately one of them ran and got a sponge.
Let's see if Elijah comes to take him down," he said. "Now leave him alone. Let's see if Elijah comes to save him." The rest said, "Now leave him alone.
When he had received the drink, Jesus said, "It is finished.
Jesus called out with a loud voice, "Father, into your hands I commit my spirit.
" With that, he bowed his head and gave up his spirit. " When he had said this, he breathed his last. With a loud cry, Jesus breathed his last. And when Jesus had cried out again in a loud voice, he gave up his spirit.
The tombs broke open and the bodies of many holy people who had died were raised to life. They came out of the tombs, and after Jesus' resurrection they went into the holy city and appeared to many people. The earth shook and the rocks split. At that moment the curtain of the temple was torn in two from top to bottom. The curtain of the temple was torn in two from top to bottom. And the curtain of the temple was torn in two.
The centurion, seeing what had happened, praised God and said, "Surely this was a righteous man." And when the centurion, who stood there in front of Jesus, heard his cry and saw how he died, he said, "Surely this man was the Son of God!" When the centurion and those with him who were guarding Jesus saw the earthquake and all that had happened, they were terrified, and exclaimed, "Surely he was the Son of God!"
When all the people who had gathered to witness this sight saw what took place, they beat their breasts and went away.
But all those who knew him, including the women who had followed him from Galilee, stood at a distance, watching these things. Many other women who had come up with him to Jerusalem were also there. In Galilee these women had followed him and cared for his needs. Some women were watching from a distance. Many women were there, watching from a distance. Among them were Mary Magdalene, Mary the mother of James the younger and of Joses, and Salome. Among them were Mary Magdalene, Mary the mother of James and Joses, and the mother of Zebedee's sons. They had followed Jesus from Galilee to care for his needs.
These things happened so that the scripture would be fulfilled: "Not one of his bones will be broken," and, as another scripture says, "They will look on the one they have pierced." He knows that he tells the truth, and he testifies so that you also may believe. The man who saw it has given testimony, and his testimony is true. Instead, one of the soldiers pierced Jesus' side with a spear, bringing a sudden flow of blood and water. But when they came to Jesus and found that he was already dead, they did not break his legs. The soldiers therefore came and broke the legs of the first man who had been crucified with Jesus, and then those of the other. Because the Jews did not want the bodies left on the crosses during the Sabbath, they asked Pilate to have the legs broken and the bodies taken down. Now it was the day of Preparation, and the next day was to be a special Sabbath.
With Pilate's permission, he came and took the body away. Now Joseph was a disciple of Jesus, but secretly because he feared the Jews. Later, Joseph of Arimathea asked Pilate for the body of Jesus. He came from the Judean town of Arimathea and he was waiting for the kingdom of God. Now there was a man named Joseph, a member of the Council, a good and upright man, who had not consented to their decision and action. Going to Pilate, he asked for Jesus' body, and Pilate ordered that it be given to him. When he learned from the centurion that it was so, he gave the body to Joseph. Summoning the centurion, he asked him if Jesus had already died. So as evening approached, Joseph of Arimathea, a prominent member of the Council, who was himself waiting for the kingdom of God, went boldly to Pilate and asked for Jesus' body. Going to Pilate, he asked for Jesus' body.
Because it was the Jewish day of Preparation and since the tomb was nearby, they laid Jesus there. At the place where Jesus was crucified, there was a garden, and in the garden a new tomb, in which no one had ever been laid. Taking Jesus' body, the two of them wrapped it, with the spices, in strips of linen. He was accompanied by Nicodemus, the man who earlier had visited Jesus at night. Joseph took the body, wrapped it in a clean linen cloth, and placed it in his own new tomb that he had cut out of the rock. It was Preparation Day, and the Sabbath was about to begin. Then he took it down, wrapped it in linen cloth and placed it in a tomb cut in the rock, one in which no one had yet been laid. So Joseph bought some linen cloth, took down the body, wrapped it in the linen, and placed it in a tomb cut out of rock. He rolled a big stone in front of the entrance to the tomb and went away. Nicodemus brought a mixture of myrrh and aloes, about seventy-five pounds.
The women who had come with Jesus from Galilee followed Joseph and saw the tomb and how his body was laid in it. Mary Magdalene and Mary the mother of Joses saw where he was laid. Mary Magdalene and the other Mary were sitting there opposite the tomb.
But they rested on the Sabbath in obedience to the commandment. Then they went home and prepared spices and perfumes.
So they went and made the tomb secure by putting a seal on the stone and posting the guard. The next day, the one after Preparation Day, the chief priests and the Pharisees went to Pilate. Otherwise, his disciples may come and steal the body and tell the people that he has been raised from the dead. This last deception will be worse than the first." So give the order for the tomb to be made secure until the third day. "Go, make the tomb as secure as you know how." "Sir," they said, "we remember that while he was still alive that deceiver said, 'After three days I will rise again.' "Take a guard," Pilate answered.
When the Sabbath was over, Mary Magdalene, Mary the mother of James, and Salome bought spices so that they might go to anoint Jesus' body.
Early on the first day of the week, while it was still dark, Mary Magdalene went to the tomb and saw that the stone had been removed from the entrance. On the first day of the week, very early in the morning, the women took the spices they had prepared and went to the tomb. Very early on the first day of the week, just after sunrise, they were on their way to the tomb and they asked each other, "Who will roll the stone away from the entrance of the tomb?" After the Sabbath, at dawn on the first day of the week, Mary Magdalene and the other Mary went to look at the tomb.
The guards were so afraid of him that they shook and became like dead men. His appearance was like lightning, and his clothes were white as snow. There was a violent earthquake, for an angel of the Lord came down from heaven and, going to the tomb, rolled back the stone and sat on it.
They found the stone rolled away from the tomb, But when they looked up, they saw that the stone, which was very large, had been rolled away.
but when they entered, they did not find the body of the Lord Jesus.
While they were wondering about this, suddenly two men in clothes that gleamed like lightning stood beside them. As they entered the tomb, they saw a young man dressed in a white robe sitting on the right side, and they were alarmed.
Come and see the place where he lay. The angel said to the women, "Do not be afraid, for I know that you are looking for Jesus, who was crucified. He is not here; he has risen, just as he said. "Don't be alarmed," he said. In their fright the women bowed down with their faces to the ground, but the men said to them, "Why do you look for the living among the dead? He is not here; he has risen! He is not here. He has risen! "You are looking for Jesus the Nazarene, who was crucified. See the place where they laid him.
Then they remembered his words. Remember how he told you, while he was still with you in Galilee: 'The Son of Man must be delivered into the hands of sinful men, be crucified and on the third day be raised again.'"
There you will see him, just as he told you.'" But go, tell his disciples and Peter, 'He is going ahead of you into Galilee. Now I have told you." There you will see him.' Then go quickly and tell his disciples: 'He has risen from the dead and is going ahead of you into Galilee.
They said nothing to anyone, because they were afraid. Trembling and bewildered, the women went out and fled from the tomb.
So the women hurried away from the tomb, afraid yet filled with joy.
So she came running to Simon Peter and the other disciple, the one Jesus loved.
and said, "They have taken the Lord out of the tomb, and we don't know where they have put him!"
Both were running, but the other disciple outran Peter and reached the tomb first. He bent over and looked in at the strips of linen lying there but did not go in. Then Simon Peter, who was behind him, arrived and went into the tomb. He saw the strips of linen lying there, as well as the burial cloth that had been around Jesus' head. Bending over, he saw the strips of linen lying by themselves, and he went away, wondering to himself what had happened. So Peter and the other disciple started for the tomb. Peter, however, got up and ran to the tomb. Then the disciples went back to their homes, (They still did not understand from Scripture that Jesus had to rise from the dead.) Finally the other disciple, who had reached the tomb first, also went inside.
Thinking he was the gardener, she said, "Sir, if you have carried him away, tell me where you have put him, and I will get him." Jesus said, "Do not hold on to me, for I have not yet returned to the Father. Jesus said to her, "Mary." At this, she turned around and saw Jesus standing there, but she did not realize that it was Jesus. "They have taken my Lord away," she said, "and I don't know where they have put him." When Jesus rose early on the first day of the week, he appeared first to Mary Magdalene, out of whom he had driven seven demons. As she wept, she bent over to look into the tomb and saw two angels in white, seated where Jesus' body had been, one at the head and the other at the foot. (which means Teacher). "Woman," he said, "why are you crying? but Mary stood outside the tomb crying.
Then Jesus said to them, "Do not be afraid. Go and tell my brothers to go to Galilee; there they will see me." They came to him, clasped his feet and worshiped him. and ran to tell his disciples. Suddenly Jesus met them. "Greetings," he said.
And this story has been widely circulated among the Jews to this very day. So the soldiers took the money and did as they were instructed. If this report gets to the governor, we will satisfy him and keep you out of trouble." When the chief priests had met with the elders and devised a plan, they gave the soldiers a large sum of money, telling them, "You are to say, 'His disciples came during the night and stole him away while we were asleep.' While the women were on their way, some of the guards went into the city and reported to the chief priests everything that had happened.
And she told them that he had said these things to her. Mary Magdalene went to the disciples with the news: "I have seen the Lord!" It was Mary Magdalene, Joanna, Mary the mother of James, and the others with them who told this to the apostles. When they heard that Jesus was alive and that she had seen him, they did not believe it. When they came back from the tomb, they told all these things to the Eleven and to all the others. She went and told those who had been with him and who were mourning and weeping. But they did not believe the women, because their words seemed to them like nonsense.
The Lord has risen and has appeared to Simon." and saying, "It is true!
One of them, named Cleopas, asked him, "Are you only a visitor to Jerusalem and do not know the things that have happened there in these days?" They came and told us that they had seen a vision of angels, who said he was alive. The chief priests and our rulers handed him over to be sentenced to death, and they crucified him; but we had hoped that he was the one who was going to redeem Israel. And beginning with Moses and all the Prophets, he explained to them what was said in all the Scriptures concerning himself. He said to them, "How foolish you are, and how slow of heart to believe all that the prophets have spoken! As they talked and discussed these things with each other, Jesus himself came up and walked along with them; but they were kept from recognizing him. Afterward Jesus appeared in a different form to two of them while they were walking in the country. Then some of our companions went to the tomb and found it just as the women had said, but him they did not see." Now that same day two of them were going to a village called Emmaus, about seven miles from Jerusalem. They went to the tomb early this morning but didn't find his body.
So he went in to stay with them. When he was at the table with them, he took bread, gave thanks, broke it and began to give it to them. But they urged him strongly, "Stay with us, for it is nearly evening; the day is almost over." As they approached the village to which they were going, Jesus acted as if he were going farther. Then their eyes were opened and they recognized him, and he disappeared from their sight. They asked each other, "Were not our hearts burning within us while he talked with us on the road and opened the Scriptures to us?"
Then the two told what had happened on the way, and how Jesus was recognized by them when he broke the bread. The Lord has risen and has appeared to Simon." There they found the Eleven and those with them, assembled together and saying, "It is true! They got up and returned at once to Jerusalem. These returned and reported it to the rest; but they did not believe them either.
And while they still did not believe it because of joy and amazement, he asked them, "Do you have anything here to eat?" They gave him a piece of broiled fish, and he took it and ate it in their presence. On the evening of that first day of the week, when the disciples were together, with the doors locked for fear of the Jews, Jesus came and stood among them and said, "Peace be with you!" Later Jesus appeared to the Eleven as they were eating; he rebuked them for their lack of faith and their stubborn refusal to believe those who had seen him after he had risen. When he had said this, he showed them his hands and feet. While they were still talking about this, Jesus himself stood among them and said to them, "Peace be with you." They were startled and frightened, thinking they saw a ghost. Touch me and see; a ghost does not have flesh and bones, as you see I have." After he said this, he showed them his hands and side. He said to them, "Why are you troubled, and why do doubts rise in your minds?
If you forgive anyone his sins, they are forgiven; if you do not forgive them, they are not forgiven." And with that he breathed on them and said, "Receive the Holy Spirit. As the Father has sent me, I am sending you." Again Jesus said, "Peace be with you!
He told them, "This is what is written: The Christ will suffer and rise from the dead on the third day, and repentance and forgiveness of sins will be preached in his name to all nations, beginning at Jerusalem. He said to them, "This is what I told you while I was still with you: Everything must be fulfilled that is written about me in the Law of Moses, the Prophets and the Psalms." You are witnesses of these things. Then he opened their minds so they could understand the Scriptures.