[Event 1] While Jesus was in Bethany in the home of a man known as Simon the Leper, a woman came to him with an alabaster jar of very expensive perfume. When the disciples saw this, they were indignant. "Why this waste?" they asked. "It was intended that she should save this perfume for the day of my burial," Jesus said.
[Event 2] A large crowd of Jews found out that Jesus was there and came, not only because of him but also to see Lazarus, whom he had raised from the dead. The chief priests made plans to kill Lazarus as well, for on account of him many of the Jews were going over to Jesus and putting their faith in him.
[Event 3] The next day the great crowd that had come for the Feast heard that Jesus was on his way to Jerusalem. They took palm branches and went out to meet him, shouting, "Hosanna!"
[Event 4] As they approached Jerusalem and came to Bethphage on the Mount of Olives, Jesus sent two disciples, saying to them, "Go to the village ahead of you, and at once you will find a donkey tied there, with her colt by her" They went and found a colt outside in the street, tied at a doorway. As they untied it, some people asked, "What are you doing, untying that colt?" They answered as Jesus had told them to, and the people let them go. When they brought the colt to Jesus and threw their cloaks over it, he sat on it.
[Event 5] A very large crowd spread their cloaks on the road, while others cut branches from the trees and spread them. Those who went ahead and those who followed shouted, "Hosanna! Blessed is he who comes in the name of the Lord!"
[Event 6] As he approached Jerusalem and saw the city, he wept over it and said, "If you, even you, had only known on this day what would bring you peace" "The days will come upon you when your enemies will build an embankment against you," he said.
[Event 7] When Jesus entered Jerusalem, the whole city was stirred and asked, "Who is this?" The crowds answered, "This is Jesus, the prophet from Nazareth in Galilee." Now the crowd that was with him when he called Lazarus from the tomb and raised him from the dead continued to spread the word.
[Event 8] Jesus entered Jerusalem and went to the temple. He looked around at everything, but since it was already late, he went out to Bethany with the Twelve. He spent the night in Bethany.
[Event 9] Jesus went to a fig tree in Bethany but found nothing on it except leaves. He said to the tree, "May no one ever eat fruit from you again" The next day as they were leaving Bethany, he went to find out if it had any fruit.
[Event 10] Jesus entered the temple area and drove out all who were buying and selling there. He overturned the tables of the money changers and the benches of those selling doves. "It is written," he said to them, "'My house will be called a house of prayer' but you are making it a 'den of robbers.'"
[Event 11] Every day he was teaching at the temple. The chief priests, the teachers of the law and the leaders among the people were trying to kill him. Yet they could not find any way to do it, because all the people hung on his words.
[Event 12] The blind and the lame came to him at the temple, and he healed them. But when the chief priests and the teachers of the law saw the wonderful things he did, they were indignant. "Do you hear what these children are saying?" they asked him. "Yes," replied Jesus, "have you never read, "'From the lips of children and infants you have ordained praise'?"
[Event 13] When evening came, they went out of the city. When evening came they went from the city, they left the city and went to their homes. They were not seen again until the next day.
[Event 14] Each day Jesus was teaching at the temple, and each evening he went out to spend the night on the hill called the Mount of Olives. All the people came early in the morning to hear him at the Temple.
[Event 15] Then he said to it, "May you never bear fruit again!" Immediately the tree withered. When the disciples saw this, they were amazed. Jesus replied, "I tell you the truth, if you have faith and do not doubt, not only can you do what was done to the fig tree"
[Event 16] Jesus entered the temple courts, and, while he was teaching, the chief priests and the elders of the people came to him. "By what authority are you doing these things?" they asked. "And who gave you this authority?" Jesus replied, "I will ask you one question. John's baptism--was it from heaven, or from men? Tell me!"
[Event 17] Jesus: "I tell you the truth, the tax collectors and the prostitutes are entering the kingdom of God ahead of you" Jesus: "For John came to you to show you the way of righteousness, and you did not believe him"
[Event 18] "Listen to another parable: There was a landowner who planted a vineyard. He put a wall around it, dug a winepress in it and built a watchtower. Then he rented the vineyard to some farmers and went away on a journey" When the harvest time approached, he sent his servants to the tenants to collect his fruit. "The tenants seized his servants; they beat one, killed another, and stoned a third"
[Event 19] Jesus said to them, "Have you never read in the Scriptures: "'The stone the builders rejected has become the capstone; the Lord has done this, and it is marvelous in our eyes'? "Therefore I tell you that the kingdom of God will be taken away from you and given to a people who will produce its fruit"
[Event 20] When the chief priests and the Pharisees heard Jesus' parables, they knew he was talking about them. They looked for a way to arrest him, but they were afraid of the crowd because the people held that he was a prophet.
[Event 21] Jesus spoke to them again in parables, saying: "The kingdom of heaven is like a king who prepared a wedding banquet for his son" He sent his servants to those who had been invited to the banquet to tell them to come, but they refused to come. "Then he sent his army and destroyed those murderers and burned their city," Jesus said.
[Event 22] Then the Pharisees went out and laid plans to trap him in his words. They sent their disciples to him along with the Herodians. But Jesus knew their hypocrisy. "Why are you trying to trap me?" he asked. "Bring me a denarius and let me look at it."
[Event 23] Some Sadducees, who say there is no resurrection, came to Jesus with a question. They asked, "Moses told us that if a man dies without having children, his brother must marry the widow and have children for him" Jesus replied, "You are in error because you do not know the Scriptures or the power of God"
[Event 24] Hearing that Jesus had silenced the Sadducees, the Pharisees got together. One of them, an expert in the law, tested him with this question: "Teacher, which is the greatest commandment in the Law?" Jesus replied: "'Love the Lord your God with all your heart' And the second is like it: 'Love your neighbor as yourself'
[Event 25] While the Pharisees were gathered together, Jesus asked them, "What do you think about the Christ? Whose son is he?" They replied, "The son of David," they replied. Then Jesus said, "How is it that they say the Christ is the Son of David? David himself calls him 'Lord' How then can he be his son?"
[Event 26] Jesus said to his disciples, "Beware of the teachers of the law. They like to walk around in flowing robes and love to be greeted in the marketplaces" He said, "They devour widows' houses and for a show make lengthy prayers. Such men will be punished most severely"
[Event 27] "Woe to you, teachers of the law and Pharisees, you hypocrites! You shut the kingdom of heaven in men's faces. You travel over land and sea to win a single convert, and when he becomes one, you make him twice as much a son of hell as you are"
[Event 28] "O Jerusalem, Jerusalem, you who kill the prophets and stone those sent to you, how often I have longed to gather your children together, as a hen gathers her chicks under her wings, but you were not willing," he said. "You will not see me again until you say, 'Blessed is he who comes in the name of the Lord'"
[Event 29] Jesus saw the rich putting their gifts into the temple treasury. He also saw a poor widow put in two very small copper coins. "I tell you the truth," he said, "this poor widow has put in more than all the others"
[Event 30] Jesus left the temple and was walking away when his disciples came up to him. "Do you see all these things?" he asked. "I tell you the truth, not one stone here will be left on another; every one will be thrown down"
[Event 31] As Jesus was sitting on the Mount of Olives, the disciples came to him privately. "Teacher," they asked, "when will these things happen? And what will be the sign that they are about to take place?"
[Event 32] Jesus answered: "Watch out that no one deceives you. For many will come in my name, claiming, 'I am the Christ, 'and will deceive many' Do not follow them," he said.
[Event 33] You will hear of wars and rumors of wars, but see to it that you are not alarmed. Nation will rise against nation, and kingdom against kingdom. There will be famines and earthquakes in various places. All these are the beginning of birth pains. "Then you will be handed over to be persecuted and put to death"
[Event 34] "So when you see standing in the holy place 'the abomination that causes desolation,' spoken of through the prophet Daniel--let the reader understand-- then let those who are in Judea flee to the mountains," he says. "How dreadful it will be in those days for pregnant women and nursing mothers! Pray that your flight will not take place in winter or on the Sabbath. For then there will be great distress, unequaled from the beginning of the world until now--and never to be equaled again"
[Event 35] At that time if anyone says to you, 'Look, here is the Christ!' or, 'There he is!' do not believe it. For false Christs and false prophets will appear and perform great signs and miracles to deceive even the elect. So be on your guard; I have told you everything ahead of time.
[Event 36] Wherever there is a carcass, there the vultures will gather. Wherever there are carcasses, there will be vultured. Where there is an animal carcass there are vulture.
[Event 37] "Immediately after the distress of those days "'the sun will be darkened, and the moon will not give its light"; the stars will fall from the sky. "At that time men will see the Son of Man coming in clouds with great power and glory. And he will send his angels and gather his elect from the four winds"
[Event 38] He told them this parable: "Look at the fig tree and all the trees. When they sprout leaves, you can see for yourselves and know that summer is near" "I tell you the truth, this generation will certainly not pass away until all these things have happened," he said.
[Event 39] "No one knows about that day or hour, not even the angels in heaven, nor the Son, but only the Father," he says. "No one can predict the future," he adds.
[Event 40] As it was in the days of Noah, so it will be at the coming of the Son of Man. In the days before the flood, people were eating and drinking, marrying and giving in marriage, up to the day Noah entered the ark. They knew nothing about what would happen until the flood came and took them all away.
[Event 41] If the owner of the house had known at what time of night the thief was coming, he would have kept watch and would not have let his house be broken into. "Therefore keep watch, because you do not know on what day your Lord will come," says Jesus.
[Event 42] "Be careful, or your hearts will be weighed down with dissipation, drunkenness and the anxieties of life," he says. "Be always on the watch, and pray that you may be able to escape all that is about to happen"
[Event 43] "At that time the kingdom of heaven will be like ten virgins who took their lamps and went out to meet the bridegroom," says Jesus. "Five of them were foolish and five were wise. The wise, however, took oil in jars along with their lamps"
[Event 44] A man entrusted his property to his servants. The man who had received the five talents went at once and put his money to work and gained five more. So also, the one with the two talents gained two more. But the man who received the one talent went off, dug a hole in the ground and hid his master's money.
[Event 45] "When the Son of Man comes in his glory, and all the angels with him, he will sit on his throne in heavenly glory" "Then the righteous will answer him, 'Lord, when did we see you hungry and feed you, or thirsty and give you something to drink?' "Then he will say to those on his left, 'Depart from me, you who are cursed, into the eternal fire prepared for the devil and his angels'
[Event 46] Some Greeks came to Philip, who was from Bethsaida in Galilee, with a request. "Sir," they said, "we would like to see Jesus." Philip went to tell Andrew; Andrew and Philip in turn told Jesus. Jesus replied, "The hour has come for the Son of Man to be glorified"
[Event 47] " When he had finished speaking, Jesus left and hid himself from them," said the Bible. "He hid himself," said Jesus of the crowds, "and said, 'I am not ashamed of what I have done'
[Event 48] When Jesus had finished saying all these things, he said to his disciples, "As you know, the Passover is two days away--and the Son of Man will be handed over to be crucified"
[Event 49] The Passover and the Feast of Unleavened Bread were only two days away. The chief priests and the teachers of the law were looking for some sly way to arrest Jesus and kill him. "But not during the Feast," they said, "or the people may riot"
[Event 50] Judas Iscariot, one of the Twelve, went to the chief priests to betray Jesus to them. They were delighted to hear this and promised to give him money. From then on Judas watched for an opportunity to hand him over.
[Event 51] Even after Jesus had done all these miraculous signs in their presence, they still would not believe in him. This was to fulfill the word of Isaiah the prophet: "Lord, who has believed our message?"
[Event 52] Then Jesus cried out, "When a man believes in me, he does not believe in me only, but in the one who sent me" "As for the person who hears my words but does not keep them, I do not judge him. For I did not come to judge the world, but to save it"
[Event 53] (Jesus rests?).
[Event 54] On the first day of the Feast of Unleavened Bread, Jesus' disciples asked him, "Where do you want us to go and make preparations for you to eat the Passover?" So he sent two of his disciples, telling them, "Go into the city, and a man carrying a jar of water will meet you. Follow him. Say to the owner of the house he enters, 'The Teacher asks: Where is my guest room, where I may eat thePassover with my disciples?' He will show you a large upper room, furnished and ready. Make preparations there."
[Event 55] When evening came, Jesus was reclining at the table with the Twelve. Jesus arrived with the 12. When the hour came, he and his apostles reclined at thetable. Jesus and the Twelve were seated at a table in the Temple.
[Event 56] And he said to them, "I have eagerly desired to eat this Passover with you before I suffer. For I tell you, I will not eat it again until it finds fulfillment in the kingdom of God"
[Event 57] Jesus knew that the time had come for him to leave this world and go to the Father. Having loved his own who were in the world, he now showed them the full extent of his love. When he had finished washing their feet, he put on his clothes and returned to his place.
[Event 58] Jesus said, "I tell you the truth, one of you will betray me" "I am telling you now before it happens, so that when it does happen you will believe that I am He," he said.
[Event 59] They were very sad and began to say to him one after the other, "Surely not I, Lord?" Jesus replied, "The one who has dipped his hand into the bowl with me will betray me"
[Event 60] Jesus answered, "It is the one to whom I will give this piece of bread when I have dipped it in the dish" He gave it to Judas Iscariot, son of Simon. As soon as Judas took the bread, Satan entered into him.
[Event 61] "What you are about to do, do quickly," Jesus told him. No one at the meal understood why Jesus said this to him. As soon as Judas had taken the bread, he went out. And it was night.
[Event 62] When he was gone, Jesus said, "Now is the Son of Man glorified and God is glorified in him" "As I have loved you, so you must love one another," he said.
[Event 63] While they were eating, Jesus took bread, gave thanks and broke it, and gave it to his disciples, saying, "Take and eat; this is my body" And he said, "This isMy body given for you; do this in remembrance of me"
[Event 64] Then he took the cup, gave thanks and offered it to them, saying, "Drink from it, all of you. This is my blood of the covenant, which is poured out for many for the forgiveness of sins"
[Event 65] I tell you, I will not drink of this fruit of the vine from now on until that day when I drink it anew with you in my Father's kingdom," Jesus said. After taking the cup, he gave thanks and said, "Take this and divide it among you"
[Event 66] Also a dispute arose among them as to which of them was considered to be greatest. Jesus said to them, "The kings of the Gentiles lord it over them; and those who exercise authority over them call themselves Benefactors. But you are not to be like that"
[Event 67] Simon Peter asked Jesus, "Lord, where are you going?" Jesus replied, "Where I am going, you cannot follow now, but you will follow later" Peter asked, " Lord, why can't I follow you now? I will lay down my life for you" Jesus answered, "Will you really lay down your life for me?"
[Event 68] "Do not let your hearts be troubled. Trust in God; trust also in me. In my Father's house are many rooms," Jesus said. Thomas said to him, "Lord, we don't know where you are going, so how can we know the way?"
[Event 69] "If you love me, you will obey what I command," Jesus says. "I will ask the Father, and he will give you another Counselor to be with you forever-- the Spirit of truth" "The world will not see me anymore, but you will see me," he says.
[Event 70] Jesus asked them, "When I sent you without purse, bag or sandals, did you lack anything? Nothing," they answered. He said, "But now if you have a purse, take it, and also a bag; and if you don't have a sword, sell your cloak and buy one. Yes, what is written about me is reaching its fulfillment."
[Event 71] When they had sung a hymn, they went out to the Mount of Olives. "Come now; let us leave," Jesus told his disciples. Jesus went out as usual to the mount and his disciples followed him.
[Event 72] Peter: "Even if I have to die with you, I will never disown you" "I tell you the truth," Jesus answered, "this very night, before the rooster crows, you will disown me three times"
[Event 73] "I am the true vine, and my Father is the gardener. He cuts off every branch in me that bears no fruit, while every branch that does bear fruit he prunes so that it will be even more fruitful" "As the Father has loved me, so have I loved you. Now remain in my love"
[Event 74] "If the world hates you, keep in mind that it hated me first," Jesus says. "If they persecuted me, they will persecute you also," he adds. "They will treat you this way because of my name, for they do not know the One who sent me"
[Event 75] "Now I am going to him who sent me, yet none of you asks me, 'Where are you going?' Because I have said these things, you are filled with grief," he says. "I have much more to say to you, more than you can now bear," he adds.
[Event 76] Some of his disciples said to one another, "What does he mean by saying, 'In a little while you will see me no more' and 'Because I am going to the Father'?" Jesus saw that they wanted to ask him about this, so he said to them, "Are you asking one another what I meant when I said that?" He said, "I tell you the truth, you will weep and mourn while the world rejoices"
[Event 77] "Though I have been speaking figuratively, a time is coming when I will no longer use this kind of language," Jesus says. "I have told you these things, so that in me you may have peace," he adds.
[Event 78] After Jesus said this, he looked toward heaven and prayed: "Father, the time has come. Glorify your Son, that your Son may glorify you" "I am not praying for the world, but for those you have given me, for they are yours," he said.
[Event 79] Jesus went with his disciples to a place called Gethsemane, and he said to them, "Sit here while I go over there and pray" He took Peter and the two sons of Zebedee along with him. "My soul is overwhelmed with sorrow to the point of death. Stay here and keep watch with me," he said.
[Event 80] An angel from heaven appeared to him and strengthened him. "Abba, Father," he said, "everything is possible for you. Take this cup from me. Yet not what I will, but what you will"
[Event 81] Then he returned to his disciples and found them sleeping. "Could you men not keep watch with me for one hour?" he asked Peter. "Watch and pray so that you will not fall into temptation. The spirit is willing, but the body is weak."
[Event 82] When he came back, he again found them sleeping, because their eyes were heavy. So he left them and went away once more and prayed the third time. Then he returned to the disciples and said to them, "Are you still sleeping and resting? Look, the hour is near, and the Son of Man is betrayed into the hands of sinners"
[Event 83] While he was still speaking, Judas, one of the Twelve, arrived. With him was a large crowd armed with swords and clubs. Now the betrayer had arranged a signal with them: "The one I kiss is the man; arrest him"
[Event 84] Jesus, knowing all that was going to happen to him, went out and asked them, "Who is it you want?" "Jesus of Nazareth," they replied. When Jesus said, "I am he," they drew back and fell to the ground.
[Event 85] Then the men stepped forward, seized Jesus and arrested him. With that, one of Jesus' companions reached for his sword, drew it out and struck the servant of the high priest, cutting off his ear. "Put your sword back in its place," Jesus said to him, "for all who draw the sword will die by the sword"
[Event 86] At that time Jesus said to the crowd, "Am I leading a rebellion, that you have come out with swords and clubs to capture me? Every day I sat in the temple courts teaching, and you did not arrest me. But the Scriptures must be fulfilled."
[Event 87] "Then all the disciples deserted him and fled. Then the detachment of soldiers with its commander and the Jewish officials arrested Jesus. They bound him," he said. He added: "Then everyone deserted him .. and fled"
[Event 88] A young man, wearing nothing but a linen garment, was following Jesus. When they seized him, he fled naked, leaving his garment behind. He was arrested and taken to the jail, where he was held for two days.
[Event 89] Those who had arrested Jesus took him to Caiaphas, the high priest. All the chief priests, elders and teachers of the law came together. Then seizing him, they led him away and took him into the house.
[Event 90] and brought him first to Annas, who was the father-in-law of Caiaphas, the high priest that year. Annas was the one who had advised the Jews that it would be good if one man died for the people.
[Event 91] Simon Peter and another disciple were following Jesus. Peter followed him at a distance, right up to the courtyard of the high priest. He entered and sat down with the guards to see the outcome.
[Event 92] Peter was sitting out in the courtyard, and a servant girl came to him. "You also were with Jesus of Galilee," she said. But he denied it before them all. "I don't know what you're talking about," he said.
[Event 93] and went out into the entryway. He then went back to his room and went to sleep. He woke up in the morning to find himself in a different room. He was in the middle of the night.
[Event 94] "I have spoken openly to the world," Jesus replied. "I always taught in synagogues or at the temple, where all the Jews come together. I said nothing in secret. Why question me?"
[Event 95] The chief priests and the whole Sanhedrin were looking for false evidence against Jesus so that they could put him to death. But they did not find any, though many false witnesses came forward. Finally two came forward and declared, "This fellow said, 'I am able to destroy the temple of God and rebuild it in three days'"
[Event 96] Then they spit in his face and struck him with their fists. Others slapped him and said, "Prophesy to us, Christ. Who hit you?" They all condemned him as worthy of death.
[Event 97] Man, I am not!" Peter replied. He denied it again, with an oath: "I don't know the man!" When the servant girl saw him there, she said again to those standing around, "This fellow is one of them"
[Event 98] After a little while, those standing there went up to Peter and said, "Surely you are one of them, for your accent gives you away" Then he began to call down curses on himself and he swore to them, "I don't know the man!
[Event 99] Peter remembered the word Jesus had spoken to him: "Just as he was speaking, the rooster crowed. and at that moment a rooster began to crow" Immediately the roosters crowed a second time.
[Event 100] Immediately a rooster crowed. Then Peter remembered the word Jesus had spoken: "Before the rooster crows, you will disown me three times." And he went outside and wept bitterly.
[Event 101] Early in the morning, all the chief priests and the elders of the people came to the decision to put Jesus to death. "If you are the Christ, "they said, "tell us." Jesus answered, "If I tell you, you will not believe me"
[Event 102] When Judas saw that Jesus was condemned, he was seized with remorse and returned the thirty silver coins to the chief priests and the elders. The chief priests picked up the coins and said, "It is against the law to put this into the treasury, since it is blood money" So they decided to use the money to buy the potter's field as a burial place for foreigners. That is why it has been called the Field of Blood to this day.
[Event 103] They bound him, led him away and handed him over to Pilate, the governor. Pilate said, "Take him yourselves and judge him by your own law" This happened so that the words Jesus had spoken indicating the kind of death he was going to die would be fulfilled.
[Event 104] Pilate asked Jesus, "Are you the king of the Jews?" "Yes, it is as you say," Jesus replied. Pilate announced to the chief priests and the crowd, "I find no basis for a charge against this man" Pilate then went back inside the palace, summoned Jesus and asked him, "Is that your own idea?"
[Event 105] Pilate asked if the man was a Galilean. When he learned that Jesus was under Herod's jurisdiction, he sent him to Herod. Herod saw Jesus, he was greatly pleased, because for a long time he had been wanting to see him.
[Event 106] While Pilate was sitting on the judge's seat, his wife sent him this message: "Don't have anything to do with that innocent man" "I have suffered a great deal today in a dream because of him," she wrote.
[Event 107] Pilate called together the chief priests, the rulers and the people, and said to them, "You brought me this man as one who was inciting the people to rebellion. I have examined him in your presence and have found no basis for your charges against him"
[Event 108] It was the custom at the Feast to release a prisoner whom the people requested. A man called Barabbas was in prison with the insurrectionists who had committed murder in the uprising. The crowd came up and asked Pilate to do for them what he usually did.
[Event 109] Chief priests and the elders persuaded the crowd to ask for Barabbas and to have Jesus executed. "Which of the two do you want me to release to you?" asked the governor. "Barabbas," they answered. With one voice they cried out, "Away with this man!"
[Event 110] "What shall I do, then, with Jesus who is called Christ?" Pilate asked. They all answered, "Crucify him!" "Why? What crime has he committed?" asked Pilate.
[Event 111] The governor's soldiers took Jesus into the Praetorium and gathered the whole company of soldiers around him. They stripped him and put a scarlet robe on him, and then twisted together a crown of thorns and set it on his head. "Hail, king of the Jews!" they said.
[Event 112] When Jesus came out wearing the crown of thorns and the purple robe, Pilate said to them, "Here is the man!" As soon as the chief priests and their officials saw him, they shouted, "Crucify! Crucify!" But Pilate answered, "You take him and crucify him"
[Event 113] When Pilate saw that he was getting nowhere, he took water and washed his hands in front of the crowd. "I am innocent of this man's blood," he said. All the people answered, "Let his blood be on us and on our children!"
[Event 114] Then he released Barabbas to them. But he had Jesus flogged, and handed him over to be crucified. He released the man who had been thrown into prison for insurrection and murder, the one they asked for.
[Event 115] After they had mocked him, they took off the robe and put his own clothes on him. Then they led him away to crucify him. Carrying his own cross, he went out to the place of the Skull (which in Aramaic is called Golgotha).
[Event 116] As they were going out, they met a man from Cyrene, named Simon, and they forced him to carry the cross. As they led him away, they seized Simon, who was on his way in from the country, and put the cross on him and made him carry it behind Jesus.
[Event 117] A large number of people followed him, including women who mourned and wailed for him. Jesus said to them, "Daughters of Jerusalem, do not weep for me; weep for yourselves and for your children"
[Event 118] They brought Jesus to the place called Golgotha (which means The Place of the Skull) Then they offered him wine mixed with myrrh, but he did not take it. And they crucified him, along with the criminals--one on his right, the other on his left.
[Event 119] Jesus said, "Father, forgive them, for they do not know what they are doing" He was referring to the Romans. Jesus said they had no idea what they were doing.
[Event 120] When the soldiers crucified Jesus, they took his clothes, dividing them into four shares, one for each of them, with the undergarment remaining. This garment was seamless, woven in one piece from top to bottom. This happened that the scripture might be fulfilled which said, "They divided my garments among them"
[Event 121] It was the third hour when they crucified him. He was crucified at the end of the third day of his life. It was the last hour that he was alive. He had been crucified for three hours.
[Event 122] Pilate had a notice prepared and fastened to the cross. It read:|sc JESUS OF NAZARETH, THE KING OF THE JEWS. Many of the Jews read this sign, for the place where Jesus was crucified was near the city.
[Event 123] Two robbers were crucified with him, one on his right and one on the left. Two other men, both criminals, were also led out with him to be executed. They crucified two robbers with him.
[Event 124] Those who passed by hurled insults at him, shaking their heads and saying, "You who are going to destroy the temple and build it in three days, save yourself!" In the same way the chief priests and the teachers of the law mocked him among themselves. Those crucified with him also heaped insults on him. The people stood watching, and the rulers even sneered at him.
[Event 125] The soldiers also came up and mocked him. They offered him wine vinegar and said, "If you are the king of the Jews, save yourself" The soldiers also mocked him with wine vinegar.
[Event 126] One of the criminals who hung there hurled insults at him: "Aren't you the Christ? Save yourself and us!" But the other criminal rebuked him. "Don't you fear God," he said, "since you are under the same sentence?"
[Event 127] Near the cross of Jesus stood his mother, his mother's sister, Mary the wife of Clopas, and Mary Magdalene. When Jesus saw his mother there, and the disciple whom he loved standing nearby, he said to his mother: "Dear woman, here is your son"
[Event 128] From the sixth hour until the ninth hour darkness came over all the land. The sun stopped shining. It was now about the sixthhour, and darkness came. Over the whole land until the 9th hour.
[Event 129] About the ninth hour Jesus cried out in a loud voice, "Eloi, Eloi, lama sabachthani?"--which means, "My God, my God, why have you forsaken me?" When some of those standing near heard this, they said, "Listen, he's calling Elijah."
[Event 130] Immediately one of them ran and got a sponge. He filled it with wine vinegar, put it on a stick, and offered it to Jesus to drink. Later, knowing that all was now completed, and so that the Scripture would be fulfilled, Jesus said "I am thirsty"
[Event 131] The rest said, "Now leave him alone. Let's see if Elijah comes to save him" "Now left him alone," one man said. "Let'ssee if Elijah come to take him down," another said.
[Event 132] When he had received the drink, Jesus said, "It is finished. It is finished," according to the Bible. Jesus said this to his disciples after he had given them the drink.
[Event 133] Jesus called out with a loud voice, "Father, into your hands I commit my spirit" Jesus called out to his father, saying, "I have committed my spirit to your hands"
[Event 134] And when Jesus had cried out again in a loud voice, he gave up his spirit. With a loud cry, Jesus breathed his last. " With that, he bowed his head and gave up His spirit"
[Event 135] At that moment the curtain of the temple was torn in two from top to bottom. The earth shook and the rocks split. The tombs broke open and the bodies of many holy people who had died were raised to life. After Jesus' resurrection they went into the holy city and appeared to many people.
[Event 136] When the centurion and those with him who were guarding Jesus saw the earthquake and all that had happened, they were terrified, and exclaimed, "Surely he was the Son of God!" The centurion, who stood there in front of Jesus, heard his cry and saw how he died.
[Event 137] When all the people who had gathered to witness this sight saw what took place, they beat their breasts and went away. When they saw what happened, they went away and started beating their breasts again.
[Event 138] Many women were there, watching from a distance. They had followed Jesus from Galilee to care for his needs. Among them were Mary Magdalene, Mary the mother of James and Joses.
[Event 139] The next day was to be a special Sabbath, and the Jews did not want the bodies left on the crosses during the Sabbath. The soldiers therefore came and broke the legs of the first man who had been crucified with Jesus, and then those of the other. But when they came to Jesus and found that he was already dead, they did not break his legs. Instead, one of the soldiers pierced Jesus' side with a spear.
[Event 140] Joseph of Arimathea asked Pilate for the body of Jesus. Joseph was a disciple of Jesus, but secretly because he feared the Jews. With Pilate's permission, he came and took the body away.
[Event 141] Joseph took the body, wrapped it in a clean linen cloth, and placed it in his own new tomb that he had cut out of the rock. He rolled a big stone in front of the entrance to the tomb and went away. It was Preparation Day, and the Sabbath was about to begin.
[Event 142] The women who had come with Jesus from Galilee followed Joseph and saw the tomb and how his body was laid in it. Mary Magdalene and Mary the mother of Joses saw where he was laid.
[Event 143] Then they went home and prepared spices and perfumes. But they rested on the Sabbath in obedience to the commandment. Then they went back to their homes to prepare food and drink for the Sabbath.
[Event 144] The next day, the one after Preparation Day, the chief priests and the Pharisees went to Pilate. "Sir," they said, "we remember that while he was still alive that deceiver said, 'After three days I will rise again.' So give the order for the tomb to be made secure until the third day"
[Event 145] When the Sabbath was over, Mary Magdalene, Mary the mother of James, and Salome bought spices so that they might go to anoint Jesus' body. The three women went to the house of Jesus and anointed him with spices.
[Event 146] After the Sabbath, at dawn on the first day of the week, Mary Magdalene and the other Mary went to look at the tomb. They asked each other, "Who will roll the stone away from the entrance of the tomb?"
[Event 147] An angel of the Lord came down from heaven and, going to the tomb, rolled back the stone and sat on it. His appearance was like lightning, and his clothes were white as snow. The guards were so afraid of him that they shook and became like dead men.
[Event 148] But when they looked up, they saw that the stone, which was very large, had been rolled away. They found the stone rolled away from the tomb, and it was found to be a very large stone.
[Event 149] but when they entered, they did not find the body of the Lord Jesus. But they did find the life of Jesus in a pool of blood in the center of the temple. The body of Jesus was found in the tomb.
[Event 150] As they entered the tomb, they saw a young man dressed in a white robe sitting on the right side, and they were alarmed. While they were wondering about this, suddenly two men in clothes that gleamed like lightning stood beside them.
[Event 151] The angel said to the women, "Do not be afraid, for I know that you are looking for Jesus, who was crucified. He is not here; he has risen, just as he said. Come and see the place where he lay"
[Event 152] Remember how he told you, while he was still with you in Galilee: 'The Son of Man must be delivered into the hands of sinful men, be crucified and on the third day be raised again'"
[Event 153] Then go quickly and tell his disciples: 'He has risen from the dead and is going ahead of you into Galilee. There you will see him' Now I have told you."
[Event 154] Trembling and bewildered, the women went out and fled from the tomb. They said nothing to anyone, because they were afraid. They were afraid of what they would find.
[Event 155] So the women hurried away from the tomb, afraid yet filled with joy. The women were afraid yetfilled with joy as they left the tomb. They were filled with fear yet full of joy, afraid and filled with hope.
[Event 156] So she came running to Simon Peter and the other disciple, the one Jesus loved. So she cameRunning to Peter and Simon Peter. She was running to Peter, the disciple Jesus loved, and the one he loved. She ran to him and said, 'Simon Peter, Simon Peter, I'm running to you'
[Event 157] and said, "They have taken the Lord out of the tomb, and we don't know where they have put him!" "We don't have any idea where he is," he said.
[Event 158] Peter, however, got up and ran to the tomb. Bending over, he saw the strips of linen lying by themselves, and he went away, wondering to himself what had happened. The other disciple, who had reached the tomb first, also went inside.
[Event 159] When Jesus rose early on the first day of the week, he appeared first to Mary Magdalene. As she wept, she bent over to look into the tomb and saw two angels in white, seated where Jesus' body had been. She turned around and saw Jesus standing there, but she did not realize that it was Jesus.
[Event 160] and ran to tell his disciples. Suddenly Jesus met them. They came to him, clasped his feet and worshiped him. Then Jesus said to them, "Do not be afraid. Go and tell my brothers to go to Galilee; there they will see me"
[Event 161] While the women were on their way, some of the guards went into the city and reported to the chief priests everything that had happened. The chief priests gave the soldiers a large sum of money, telling them, "You are to say, 'His disciples came during the night and stole him away while we were asleep' If this report gets to the governor, we will satisfy him and keep you out of trouble" So the soldiers took the money and did as they were instructed.
[Event 162] She went and told those who had been with him and who were mourning and weeping. When they heard that Jesus was alive and that she had seen him, they did not believe it. Mary Magdalene, Joanna, Mary the mother of James, and the others with them told this to the apostles.
[Event 163] and saying, "It is true! The Lord has risen and has appeared to Simon" "The Lord has rose and has appearing to Simon," he said, "and the Lord has spoken to Simon."
[Event 164] Jesus appeared in a different form to two of them while they were walking in the country. He asked them, "What are you discussing together as you walk along?" They stood still, their faces downcast. He said, "How foolish you are, and how slow of heart to believe all that the prophets have spoken!"
[Event 165] As they approached the village to which they were going, Jesus acted as if he were going farther. But they urged him strongly, "Stay with us, for it is nearly evening" So he went in to stay with them. When he was at the table with them, he took bread, gave thanks, broke it and began to give it to them.
[Event 166] These returned and reported it to the rest; but they did not believe them either. They got up and returned at once to Jerusalem. There they found the Eleven and those with them, assembled together and saying, "It is true!"
[Event 167] Jesus appeared to the Eleven as they were eating; he rebuked them for their lack of faith and their stubborn refusal to believe those who had seen him after he had risen. He said to them, "Why are you troubled, and why do doubts rise in your minds?"
[Event 168] Again Jesus said, "Peace be with you! As the Father has sent me, I am sending you." And with that he breathed on them and said, 'Receive the Holy Spirit'
[Event 169] He said to them, "This is what I told you while I was still with you: Everything must be fulfilled that is written about me in the Law of Moses, the Prophets and the Psalms" Then he opened their minds so they could understand the Scriptures.